' Republic o*he Philippines'4 '
OFFICE OF THE CITY IVIAYOR
Caty of Davao
1t
.7'
NEO!g
riisro:
N6
Ref. No, CAdO-2021-00243
zNd INDORSEMENT
February 4,2021
Respectfully returned to Ms. Charito N. Santos, Secretary to the SANGGUNIANG
Panlungsod, this City, the within LegalOpinion No. 107, SERIES of 2021dated January 26,
2021from the City Legal Office, relative to the duly signed Ordinance No. 0333-20, SERIES
Of 2020, entit|ed,.ENACTING AN ORDINANCE AMENDING ORDINANCE NO. 5004, SERIES
AF 1997, OTHERWISE KNOWN AS THE "WOMEN DEVELOPI.4ENT CODE TO STRENGTHEN
STRUCTURES AND MECHANISMS IN ADDRESSING THE EVOLVING CONCERNS OF
WOMEN AND CHILDREN", for your information and appropriate action.
For the City Mayor:
ATTY. TRTSTAN
MTN,:A
a-t-atYv
Assistant
(Adr
ation)
q\gaq
ffi)
(tr-v YaYoi,S oFf lcE
(O,rRISDOilOtnCt ANU RICOR05 DtV
T(ELEA.SED
l'EB 00s :l2l tts- ttt
t.,r*(G^u^o
ADMtNtSt {r{tlyE A|DE tv 0:
/11
Second Floor, City Hall Building, City Hall Drive, San Pedro St., Davao City
(082) 224-3004 o (082) 241-1000 loc. 265 o davaocitymayor@gmail.com
002-bl-u
BAW @
LIFE IS HERE

Republic of Sie Philippines
City of Davao' '
OFFICE OF THE CITY LEGAL OFFIC
l-el. No.298-6970
Trunk Une No. 241-1000 Lcr. 267*225*230
davaocitylegal@gmail.com
Ref. No. CLO-2021-00314
LEGAL OPINION NO. \01
SERIES OF 2O2L
S&r;l$t BS If;t GET'
ltfJl
"RE: ORDINANCE NO. 0333-20 SERIES OF 2O2O ENTITLED
ENACTING AN ORDII{ANCE AMENDING ORDINANCE NO.
5004, SERIES OF L997, OTHERWISE KNOWN AS THE
*WOMEN DEVELOPMENT CODE TO STRENGTHEN
STRUCTURES AND MECHANISMS IN ADDRESSING THE
EVOLVING CONCERNS OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN"
IMMIREB
10nt-OO
Date of approval: January 26, Z02t
lst INDORSEMENT
January 26,202L
L<b
forwarded to the Office of the City Mayor, through the Office
0rffi
ffir
of the City Administrator, both this City, the herein Ordinance No. 033-20, SERIES
of 2020, informing your end that the enactment of the same is well within the
powers of the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod.
The SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod has an inherent power to enact, modiff,
amend or repeal an ordinance, in adherence to the principle that "the power to
enact ordinance, includes the power to alter them".
Verily, the amendment of the subject ordinance conforms with SECTION
458 (a) (v) of Republic Act 7160, otherwise known as the Local Government
Code of 1991.
IN VIEW OF THE FOREGOING PREMISES, it is recommended that the
Ordinance be approved.
Respectfu I ly sgbmitted .
/
ATTY. OSMU
LLANUEVA" JR.
Asst.
Legal Officer
Officer-In-Charge
U#
GAL
J
t,/A CIC
rfl
N2B

I
January L9,2021
o( 7.,o t( -ln
SARA Z, DUTERTE
City Mayor
Madam
pursuant to Sub-SECTION 3, Paragraph C, SECTION 469, Article One, Title Five,
Chapter 3, Book III and SECTION 54 Book I of Republic Act No. 7160, otherwise known
as the Local Government Code of 1991, we are furnishing you a copy of Resolution No.
01392-20 and Ordinance No. 0333-20, both SERIES of 2020 of the SANGGUNIANG
Panlungsod,for your information, guidance and appropriate action.
Very truly yours,
",rft#6[*r*,
Secretary to the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod
(City Government Department Head II)
CMO. CRD
RECEIVED
JAN202021 b\tal'[,q\
I

PRESENT:
19th City Council
30th Regular Session
SERIES of 2020
Councilor
Vice Mayor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Edgar P. Ibuyan Jr.
Sebastian Z. Dutefte
Ralph O. Abella
Nilo D. Abellera
Maria Belen S. Acosta
Bai Hundra Cassandra Dominique N. Advincula
Wilberto E. Al-ag
Dante L. Apostol Sr.
Conrado C. Baluran
Jessica M. Bonguyan
Louie John J. Bonguyan
Pilar C. Braga
Augusto lavier G. Campos III
Danilo C. Dayanghirang
Jonard C. Dayap
Edgar R. Ibuyan Sr.
Richlyn N. Justol-Baguilod
Pamela A. Librado-Morata
Diosdado Angelo Junior R. Mahipus
Jaffar U. Marohomsalic
Myrna G. L'Dalodo-Ortiz
Antoinette G. Principe-Castrodes
J. Melchor B. Quitain Jr.
Alberto T. Ungab
Mary Joselle D. Villafuefte
Jesus Joseph P. Zozobrado III
- Temporary Presiding Officer
ABSENT:
Councilor Bonifacio E. Militar
ORDINANCE NO. 0333.20
SERIES of 2O2O
ENACTTNG AN ORDTNANCE AMENDTNG ORDTNANCE NO. 500+
SERIES OF 1997, OTHERWISE KNOWN AS THE *WOMEN
DEVELOPMENT CODE,' TO STRENGTHEN STRUCTURES AND
MECHANISMS IN ADDRESSING THE EVOLVING CONCERNS OF
WOMEN AND CHILDREN
'l-(.ato. r.

Ord. No. 0333-20
Be it ordained by the Honorable SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod of Davao City, in
session assembled, that:
BOOK I - GEI{ERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER I- BASIC PRINCIPLES
ARTICLE I
Title and General Policy
SECTION 1. TITLE- This Ordinance shall be known as the 'WOMEil
DEVELOPMENT CODE OF DAVAO CrTy, AS AMEilDED".
SECTION 2. DECLARATION OF POLICY AND PRINCIPLES OF THE LOCAL
GOVERNMENT OF DAVAO CITY
The CiW Government of Davao adheres to the princiole that human rights are
univercal anrl inalianahla Tn lina uril*r thic the Cifv chall hear the dr*v tn rrnhnld the
rights of women and the belief in their worth and dignitv as human beinos.
Hence, the City Government of Davao shall hereby affirm that women's rights are
human riqhts and shall intensiff its efforts to fu!fill its duties under international and
domestic laws to recognize, respect. protect. fulfill and promote all human rights and
fundamental freedom of women, especially marginalized women. in the economic,
social, oolitical, cultural, and other fields without distinction or discrimination on account
of their class. age, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity and expression, language.
ethnicity, religion, ideology, disability. education and status.
Women shall be recognized as full and equal paftners of men in development and
nation building and men shall share equally in all forms of productive and reproductive
activities.
The City Government of Davao shall actively contribute to the establishment of a
national and international economic order based on sustained, equitable growth and
balanced ecology. And that any development efforts it undeftakes should enhance
women's full potential, uplift their status and lead to the improvement of their quality of
Iives, their families and that of their communities.
The Citv Government of Davao values the dignity of women and children and
guarantees full respect for human riohts. The City also recoonizes the need to orotect
the family and its members oafticularlv women and children. from violence and threats
to their Bersonal safety and security.
Towards this end, the City Government of Davao shall pursue and implement
vigorously gender responsive development policies, design an integrated gender and
development support systems, taking into consideration women's immediate economic
suruival with support for their efforts of empowerment and self-determination, and to
adopt and implement measures to protect and promote their rights.
TO ATTAIN THE FORGOING POTICY:
1. Subject to applicable laws. rules. and reoulations, thirU percent (30o/o) of the
Official Development Assistance funds received from foreign governments and
multilateral agencies and organizations shall be set aside and utilized in
accordance with the provisions of Republic Ad 7192, otherwise known as
"Women in Development and Nation Building Act", by the City Government
departnents and agencies concemed, to suppoft programs and activities for
women.

Ord. No. 0333-20
2. All City Government departments and agencies shall ensure that women
benefit equally and pafticipate directly in the development programs and
pCIects of said deparffnents and agencies, specifically those funded under
official foreign development assistance, to ensure the full pafticipation and
involvement of women in the development process, pursuant to RA 7192.
3. All government project proposals shall asceftain the inclusion of gender
responsive indicators and guidelines while not to be remiss in locating the root
of women's oppression, pursuant to the United Nations Declarations and
Conventions of which the Philippine Government is a signatory, includino
especially the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination
Aoainst Women (CEDAW).
4. All City Government departments and agencies of Davao City upon effectivity
of this Code shall review and revise all their regulations, circulars, issuances
and procedures to remove gender biases therein.
5. The Barangay Council of Women of Davao City, as provided for under SECTION
Ia Article II, Chapter II, Book I of this Code, shall be actively consulted in
matters dealing with official development assistance or foreign aid so as to
determine gender biases and implications on women.
SECTION 3. DEFINITION OF TERMS
a.) Battering - a SERIES of ohysical, economic and psvchological abuse. It is a
repeated and habitual cyclic pattern or means of intimidations and imposition of
the batterer's will and control over the survivor's life. Batterino constitutes the
following kinds of behavior but not limited to:
i. Phvsical batterino - a kind of batterino that refers to acts that include
bodily or physical harm;
ii. Sexual batterinq - this includes ohysical attacks on the women's
breasUgenitals or forced sexual activity, accompanied by either physical
violence or the threat of physical violence.
iii. Psycholooical batterino - this includes threats of suicide. violence
against the woman or her family, Bunching, breaking or defacing or
otherwise destroying the house or any paft thereof or the personal
belongings of a woman, threatenino to take the children away. threatening
to depoft wives with foreign citizenship. threatening to kidnap children or
take them to a foreign country and forcing the victim to do degradino
things; controlling the victim's lawful or usual activities, the use of foul and
insulting words or statements and threats of abandonment and expulsion
such as forcino the wives to leave the coniuoal dwellinq. This provision
shall likewise apply to common-law relations but does not include
adulterous ones as contemolated in the Revised Penal Code.
iv. Economic batterino - this includes deprivation of women of
economic resources, their generation and mobilization so as to create
dependency and submissiveness to men and to anv established structures
of domination.

t
Ord. No. 0333-20
b.) Discrimination - refers to any act. or conduct which withholds.
excludes. restricts, cuftails. demeans human dignity, or otherwise impairs
the recognition, eniovment, and exercise of human rights and basic
freedom in the economic. labor, social-cultural. educational and any other
field of public life based on sex, gender identity, sexual orientation. race.
color, descent. national or ethnic origin, relioious affiliations or belieB.
c.) Children - refers to those who are below eighteen (18) years of age or
over but are unable to fullv take care of themselves or protect themselves
from abuse, neglect, cruelty, exoloitation, or discrimination because of
physical or mental disability or condition.
d.) Commodification of Women - rcfers to a practice which puts
women in subordinate situations which results in the treatment of women
as both consumer goods and objects. As consumers, women are allured to
buy beauty products to enhance their physical attractiveness. As objects of
consumption, women are reduced to a sexual commodity for manipulation
and utilization for one's sexual desire or interest usually in exchange of
money or goods so as that women have no control or power to reject such
utilization or manipulation.
e.) Creation of the Integrated Gender and Development Office
(IGDO) - refers to the Ofiftce which shall be created by the City
Government of Davao, through a separate ordinance, and is responsible
for the implementation of this Ordinance. It addresses itself to the
convergence of the local government effofts towards a district level
coordination and cooperation in facilitating gender and development
program planning, development implementation, monitoring and
evaluation.
f.) Cybercrime - any act which refer to cyberse& cyberpornography, and
anv unlawful acts that can be gathered online as contemplated in Republic
Act No. 10175 or the Qbercrime Prevention Act of 2012.
g.) Development - refers to the improvement of the quality of life of all
regardless of age, sX, gender, tribe, race, creed and religion. It is
characterized by an enrichment of Filipino indigenous resources,
sustainable utilization of the natural resources of the country and freedom
from dependency. It is therefore, sustained, equitable growth and
balanced ecology.
h. Differently-abled Women - refer to women suruivors of physical
impairments and have differential needs and potentials.
i. Discrimination Aoainst Women - referc to any oender-based
distinction. exclusion, or restriction which has the effect or purpose of
imoairing or nulliffing the recoonition, enjoyment. or exercise by women.
irrespective of their marital status, on the basis of equality of men and
women. of human rights and fundamental freedom in the political.
economic, social, cultural, civi!, or any other field.
It indrrdac anv ar* nr nmiccian i
ttdinn hv law nnlirw arlminicfrativp
measure, or practice. that directly or indirectly excludes or restricts women
in the recognition and promotion of their rights and their access to and
enjoyment of oppoftunities, benefits. or privileges.
a

!
Page 5 of45
Ord. No. 0333-20
j. Enteftainment Industly - includes establishments identified as places
of amusement as defined in the Local Tax Code of Davao City, Ordinance
No. SERIES of 1991.
k. Fund Raising Initiative - refers to any activity, whether in whole or in
paft, but not limited to, those integrated in any raffle, draw, enteftainment
shows. fiestas, car shows, benefit or disco dance, premier showing of
movies, fashion shows, modeling, or any similar fund-raising undeftakings
where women are used as donor prize, substitute for prizes won, a
companion package for an award, prize or recognition, or any manner,
activity, come-on display, or exhibition which depicts a woman as centra!,
paftial, or special focus in order to raise funds.
l. GAD Focal Point Svstem (GFPS I - refers to an interacting and
interdeoendent group of people involvino the local oovernment
instrumentalities of the City of Davao tasked to catalwe and accelerate
qender mainstreamino. It is a mechanism established to ensure and
advocate for, ouide, coordinate, and monitor the development,
implementation, review and updating of their GAD plans and GAD-related
programs, activities and projects as illustrated bv PCW Memorandum
Circular No. 2011-01, SERIES of 2011.
m. Gender - is a socially constructed diffierence between men and women.
Differences are created artificially, partly through socialization and partly
through positive and negative discrimination in the various institutions and
structures of society.
n. Gender and Development - refers to conscious efurt at improving the
quality of lives of women and men based on sustained, equitable growth,
and balanced ecology. It sees society as a gender system in all its aspects
- economic, political and social. It views women's oppression in both the
private and public spheres. It sees women as agents of change, instead of
mere recipients of development assistance. It calls for structural changes
as well as reorientation of the patriarchal culture.
All schools, Offices, Establishments or Companies, Depaftments and
Agencies of the Local Government of Davao City shall be provided with
gender sensitivity orientation and training which shall equip them with
theoretical and practical knowledge on gender issues and concerns.
Likewise, all establishments, schools, colleges and universities shall
develop assessment tools for gender biases.
o. Gender Eouality - refers to the orinciole asseftino the eouality of men
and women and their right to enjoy equal conditions realizing their full
human potentials to contribute to and benefit from the results of
development, and with the State recognizing that all human beings are
free and equa! in dignity and riohts.

Ord. No. 0333-20
p. Gender Equitf - refers to the policies, instruments, proorams, seruices,
and actions that address the disadvantaged position of women in sociew
by providing preferential treatment and affirmative action. Such temporary
special measures aimed at acceleratino de facto equality between men and
women shall not be considered discriminatol% but shal! in no way entail as
a conseouence the maintenance of unequal or separate standards. These
measures shall be discontinued when the objectives of equality of
oppoftunity and treaffnent have been achieved.
g. Gender ldentitv
refers to
oersonal sense of identitv as
characterized. among others, by manner of clothing. inclinations, and
behavior in relation to masculine or feminine conventions.
r. Gender Mainstreamino - refers to the strateoy for makino women's as
well as men's concerns and experiences an integral dimension of the
desion. imolementation, monltoring, and evaluation of oolicies and
programs in all politica!, economic, and societal spheres so that women
and men benefit eoually and inequality is not perpetuated. It is the process
of assessing the implications for women and men of any planned action,
including legislation, policies, or programs in all areas and at all levels.
s. IGDO - is an office in the Local Government Unit of Davao City, which
shall act as the implementing, coordinative, regulatory and monitoring
body of the Local Government of Davao City tasked to implement the
orovisions of this Ordinance relative to the gender-sensitive proorams,
projecE and activities of al! departments, bureaus and instrumentalities in
the City Government of Davao. It shall comolement gender-related
functions of other agencies of the local government. The said office shall
be created through a separate ordinance to be enacted by the CiU Council
of Davao.
t. Indioenous Peooles - refers to a oroup of people or homooenous
societies identified bv self-ascriotion and ascription by other, who have
continuouslv lived as organized communitv on communally bounded and
defined territory, and who have. under claims of ownership since time
immemorial. occupigd. oossessed customs. tradition. and other distinctive
cultural traits. or who have, through resistance to political, social. and
cultural inroads of colonization, non-indigenous religions and culture,
became historicallv differentiated from the majority of Filipinos. They shall
likewise include peoples who are regarded as indigenous on account of
their descent from the populations which inhabited the country, at the time
of conouest or colonization, or at the time of inroads of non-indigenous
religions and cultures, or the establishment of oresent state boundaries,
who retain some or all of their own social. economic. cultural, and political
institutions, but who may have been disolaced from their traditional
domains or who mav have resettled outside their ancestral domains as
defined under SECTION 3 (h), Chapter II of Republic Act No. 8371,
otherwise known as "The Indigenous Peoples Rights Act of 1997".
u. Land-based Projects-refer to activities designed systematically in order
to provide women the oppoftunity to have full access and control over the
maximum utilization of land an dother indigenous resources.

Ord. No. 0333-20
v. Mail-Order Bride. It is a practice where a male-foreign national establish
personal relations with a woman via mail or similar means upon
recruitrnent by an individual or agency for the purpose of exoloiting women
in the guise of marriaoe.
w. Marital Status - As referred by PSA Board Resolution No 01, SERIES of
20L7 - 99, is the status of an individual in relation to marriage, classified
as follows:
a) Single - A person who has never been married;
b) Married - A couple living together as husband and wife, legally or
consensually;
c) Annulled - A person whose bond of matrimony has been dissolved
legally and who therefore can remarry;
d) Separated - A person separated Iegally or not from his/her spouse
because of marital discord or misunderstanding; and
e) widowed - A person whose bond of matrimony has been dissolved
by death of his/her spouse.
x. MilitalT purooses/necessity - means the necessitv of employino
measures which are indispensable to achieve a legitimate aim of the
conflict and are not otherwise prohibited by International Humanitarian
Law.
y. Moro - refers to native peoples who have historically inhabited Mindanao.
Palawan, and Sulu, and who are largely of the Islamic faith.
2. Other Places of Amusement - include al! other places of amusement
not specifically enumerated or otherwise provided for in this Ordinance,
including, but not limited to, nightclubs or dayclubs, cocKail lounges, super
or family clubs, disco houses, minus-one or sing-along houses, bar or beer
houses/gardens, fast food centers showing video cassette films/movies,
beach resolts, and other places of amusement where one seeks admission
to enteftain himself whether by seeing or viewing or by direct participation.
aa. Pedophilia - is a form of peruersion where children are the preferred
victims, defined under the following circumstances:
a. when the offender shall have sexuat intercourse with a young girl
or gir! child;
b. when the offender shall have anal or oral intercourse with a boy
child or girl child; and
c. any sexual abuse. rape. cybersex, cvberpornography. or any
nther fnrrtrc nf ahrce r^ammiftad tn minnrc :c nrnvidad hv fho
Revised Penal code and Republic Act No.9208, Reoublic Act No.
7610, Reoublic Act No. 9775, and Republic Act No. 10175.
bb. Percons with Disabilities - refer to those who are sufferino from
restriction or different abilities, as a result of mental. physical, or sensorv
impairment to peform an activity in the manner or within the ranoe
considered normal for a human being;

cc. Pornographic and Indecent Shows - refer to indecent shows as used in
this Code which include nude or other provocative gestures which further
project and exhibit women as sex objects.
Any person or agency who engages in shows depicting women as sex
objects in private or in public place or under scandalous circumstances
shall be deemed to have violated women's rights.
dd. Psychological Program - refers to an intervention using a system
approach to conditions of women as it views women's differentiated needs
in a social context.
ee. Reproductive Health - refers to the state of complete physical, mental
and social well-being and not merely the absence of disease or infirmity, in
all matters relating to the reproductive system and to its functions and
processes. This implies that people are able to have a responsible, safe,
consensua! and satisffing sex life, that they have the capability to reproduce
and the freedom to decide if, when, and how often to do so. This further
implies that women and men attain equal relationships in matters related to
sexual relations and reproduction.
ff. Reproductive Health Care - refers to the access to a full range of
methods, facilities, services and supplies that contribute to reproductive
health and well-being by addressing reproductive health-related problems. It
also includes sexual health, the purpose of which is the enhancement of life
and personal relations. The elements of reproductive health care include the
following:
1. Family planning information and seruices which shall include
as a first priority making women of reproductive age fully
aware of their respective cycles to make them aware of when
fertilization is highly probable, as well as highly improbable;
2. Maternal, infant and child health and nutrition, including
breastfeeding;
3. Proscription of abortion and management of aboftion
complications;
4. Adolescent and youth reproductive health guidance and
counseling;
5. Prevention, treatment and management of reproductive tract
infections (RTIs), HIV and AIDS and other Sexually
Transmitted Infections (STIs);
6. Elimination of violence against women and children and other
forms of sexual and gender-based violence;
7. Education and counseling on sexuality and reproductive
health;
B. Treatment of breast and reproductive tract cancers and other
gynecological conditions and disorders;
9. Male responsibility and involvement and men's reproductive
health;
Ord. No. 0333-20

Ord. No. 0333-20
10. Prevention, treatrnent and management of infertility and
sexual dysfunction;
11. Reproductive health education for the adolescents; and
12.Mental health aspect of reproductive health care.
gg. Right to Information - refers to equal access to information regarding
policies on women, including programs, p@ects, and funding outlays that
affect women, shal! be ensured.
hh. RightsofWomen- are the rights of women that are defined and declared
by the United Nations under the Convention on the Elimination of
Discrimination Against Women (CEDAW) and Reoublic Act No.
940wh ichweherebyadoptasfo! lows :
a. Women have the right to the prevention of and protection
from all forms of violence and coercion against their person,
thei r freedom,thei r sexuality, andthei r i nd ivid uality;
b. Women have the right to freely and fully participate
individually or collectively in the political processes of their
communities and nations;
c. Women have the right to the means for assuring their
economic welfare and security;
d. Women have the right to the necessary knowledge and means
for the full exercise of their reproductive choice in accordance
to the Constitution and their beliets and preferences;
e. Women have the right to choose a spouse in accordance with
their values and preferences, maintain equality in maniage or
its dissolution, and obtain adequate support for rearing and
caring of their children;
f. Women have the right to an adequate, relevant and genderfair educaUon throughout their lives, from childhood to
adulthood;
g. Women have the right to adequate nutrition and proper health
care;
h. Women have the right to humane living conditions;
i. Women have the right to nurture their personhood, collectively
and individually, to secure an image of themselves as whole
and valuable human beings, to build relationships based on
respect, trust and mutuality;
j. Women have the right to equality before the law in principle as
well as in practice; and
k. Other rights of women as protected by International
Conventions and Domestic Laws.
ii. Senior Citizens - refer to those sixtv (60) years of aoe and above;
ii. Sexual Abuse. Sexual abuse shall include. but is not limited to. the
followino:
Whpn e man incerte, or attpm
tn incar* hic nanic intn fha
mouth or anus of a woman under any of the followino
situations:

Page 10 of45
Ord. No. 0333-20
a. Through f6rce. threat or intimidation;
b. By means c,f abuse of authority or relationship;
c. When the offended party is deprivedof reason or is
otherwise unconscious;
d. When the offendedparty is below twelve (12) years
old, even though none of the above circumstances is
Dresent.
2. When a person who insefts oart of his or her body other than
the sexual organ, or who introduces any object or instrument
into the oenital or anus of a woman under any of the situations
stated in paragraph 1.
3. When a person subjects another to have sexual intercourse with
an animal under any of the circumstances stated in paraoraph 1
or throuoh any abnormal, unusual or ignominous sexual act.
4. Any intentional contact however slioht of one's penis to the
genita!. mouth. breast or anus of a woman or intentional
contact thereof. however slight, to any oaft of her body other
than her sexual organ; or the Use of any instrument or object
which intentionally touches the genital, breast or anus of a
woman.
5. Sexual abuse in intimate marital relations. Forced sexual act
committed under intimate or marital relations shall form paft of
sexual abuse such as those between man and woman, woman
and woman, man and man relations. married or unmarried,
legally separated or seoarated in fact.
kk. Sexual Orientation - refers to the direction of emotional. sexual attraction.
or conduct towards people of the same sex or towards oeople of both sexes, or
towards oeople of ooposite sex. or the absence of sexual attraction.
ll. Sexual Harassment. Sexual harassment is committed through any
unwanted, unsolicited, unwelcomed actions of a sexual nature or rcmarks
refening to a person's sex, gender and/or sexuality, regardless of the motive for
committing such action or remarks, provided further that, the positions, hierarchy
and stature of the perpetrator and victim shall not matter in considering the act
as gender-based sexual harassment.
Sexual harassment shall be unlawfu! in the employment. education or training
environment as prescribed in Republic Act No. 7877.
Sexual harassment shall also be unlawfu! in streets, public spaces. and/or online
as provided by Republic Act No. 11313.
mm. Suruivor's Suppoft Group - is an organized group of women to whom a
woman-surivor of violence voluntarily agrees to establish a professional helping
process.
nn. Traffickino in Women - is a covert recruitment ofiruomen into the sex trade
industry. It includes new forms of sqxual exploitation such as sex tourism,
recruitment of domestic labor to work in developed countries. and organized
marriages between women from third world countries, and foreign nationals,
promoting or initiating a wstem in which women become movable propefties and
objects of exchange. Traffickino in Women shall include the following, but not
limited to:

Page 11 of45
Ord. No. 0333-20
a. for any oerson, association, cult. reliqion or organization, or
similar entities to commit the following acts:
establish or carru on a
for the ouroose of
matching women for marriage to foreioner either on
mail-order basis or through personal introduction or
cyberspace;
- adveftise. oublish. orint or distribute. or cause the
adveftisement, publication. printing or distribution of
any brochure, flyer or prooaoanda material calculated to
promote the aboye-mentioned prohibited acts for profit
or advantage;
- solicit, enlist. or attracUinduce any woman to join any
club association or oroanization whose obiective is to
match women for marriage to foreigners;
either on mail-order
or throuoh oersonal
introduction or cybersoace or anv other forms which
facilitate the act of solicitation;
- use the oostal seruice. cyberspace or satellite W to
promote the above-mentioned prohibited acts.
b. to buy or sell a woman, or any of her body parts for profiU or to
use her body by any oretext; to be used as experiments,
research or the like without her consent.
c. to act as a procurer of sex worker.
d. to threaten or use violence and force a woman to become a
mai!-order bride.
oo.ViolenceAgainstWomen-refers to any act of gender-based violence that
results in, or is likely to result in physical, sexual or psychological harm or
suffering to women, including threats of such act, coercion or arbitrary deprivation
of liberty, whether occurring in public or private life.
pp. Women - refers to biologically assigned female at birth.
CHAPTER II - DEVETOPMENT CONCERNS
ARTICLE I
Violene Aoainst Women and Their Childrcn
SECTTOT( 7, ACIS OF WOLETICE AGAINST WOHEN AND
THEIR CHILDREN. Violence against women and their children shall be
committed through any of the following acts:
a. Causing physical harm to the woman or her child;
b. Threatening to cause the woman or her child physical
harm;
c. Attempting to cause the woman or her child physical
harm;
d. Placing the woman or her child in fear of imminent
physical harm;

Page 12 of45
Ord. No. 0333-20
e. Attempting to compe! or compelling the woman or her
child to engage in conduct which the woman or her
child has the right to desist from or to desist from
conduct which the woman or her child has the right to
engage in, or attempting to restrict or restricting the
woman's or her child's fteedom of movement or
conduct by force or threat of force, physical or other
harm or threat of physical or other harm, or
intimidation directed against the woman or her child.
This shall include, but not limited to, the following acts
committed with the purpose or effect of controlling or
restricting the woman's or her child's movement or
conduct:
i. Threatening to deprive or actually depriving the
woman or her child of custody or access to
her/his family;
ii. Depriving or threatening to deprive the woman
or her children of financial support legally due
her or her family, or deliberately providing the
woman's children insufficient financial suppoft;
iii. Depriving or threatening to deprive the woman
or her child of a legal right;
iv. Preventing the woman in engaging in any
legitimate profession, occupation, business or
activity, or controlling the victim's own money
or properties, or solely controlling the conjugal
or common money, or properties;
t. Inflicting or threatening to inflict physica! harm on
oneself for the purpose of controlling her actions or
decisions;
g. Causing or attempting to cause the woman or her
child to engage in any sexual activity which does not
constitute rape, by force or threat of force, physical
harm, or through intimidation directed against the
woman or her child or her/his immediate family;
h. Engaging in purposeful, knowing, or reckless conduct,
personally or through another that alarms or causes
substantial emotiona! or psychological distress to the
woman or her child. This shall include, but not be
limited to, the following acts:
i. Stalking or following the woman or her child in
public or private places;
ii. Peering in the window or lingering outside the
residence of the woman or her child;

Page 13 of45
Ord. No. 0333-20
iii. Entering or remaining in the dwelling or on the
property of the woman or her child against
herlhis will;
iv. Destroying the propefi and persona!
belongings or inflicting harm to animals or pets
of the woman or her child; and
v. Engaging in any form of harassment or
violence;
i. Causing mental or emotional anguish, public ridicule or
humiliation to the woman or her child, including, but not
limited to, repeated verbal and emotional abuse, and
denial of financial support or custody of minor children or
denial of access to the woman's child/ children.
SECTTOTI 2, BARATYGAY UAW DESK ESTABLISHMENT AND
OPEtu{TION,Purcuant to F*4 9710 the baranaay shall estabtish a Violence
A$ainst Women (VAW\ Desk with operating expenses chargeabte to iB GAD
allocation to ensure that violence aoainst women cases are fully addressed in a
gender-resDonsive manner. Guidelines set for the establishment of VAW Desk
under DILG DSWQ and DOJ JMC 2010-I and Davao Cityg VAW Desk Ordinance
shall be followed by the baranoav.
SECTTON 3,DUT1ES OF OTHER GOVERNMENT AGETICIES ATYD
LGUi,- Other aovernment agencies and LGIJs shall establish proorams such as,
but not limited tq education and information camnlfl and seminarc or sumlnsia
on the nature, causes, incidence and consequences of such violence particularlv
towards educating the public on iB social impacB.
SECTTOT! 4, WOMEN'S RIqHTS DIIRITYG ARMED COTYFLICT AT{D
MfL|TARIATIOII, Purcuant to RA 9710 women shall have the rioht to
Drotection and securiU in situations of armed conflict and militarization. Towards
this en4 thev shall be protected from all forms of gender-based violence,
Daftbularly rape and other forms of sexual abuse, and all forms of ur'olence in
situations of armed conflict. The citv shall obserue internationat standards for the
orotection of ciuilian po^,,t^*ion in circumstances of emeroency and armed
conflict. It shall not force women, especially indioenous people, to abandon their
lands, territories and means of subsistence, or relocate them in special centers
for military purposes under any discriminatoru condition.
SECTION 5, MANDATORY HUMATV RIGHTS AND GENDER
and baranaay officials and fitnctionaries wnnel, esoeciallv those involved in
the ^'otection and defense of women aoainst gender-based uiolence shail
underflo a mandatory trainina on human righB and aender sensitivitv led bv the
Intearated Gender and Development Division fiGDQt and its accredited seruice
prouiderc and - trainina institutions.
/

Page 14 of45
Ord. No. 0333-20
OTHER CRfSIS SITUATIOIIS. - Purcuant to RA 9710 women have the rioht to
Drotection and scuriV in times of dissterc-calamities, and other crisis situations
esPeciallv in all phases of reliet, recovery rehabilitation, and construction efforb.
The city shall provide br immediate humanitarian assistance allocation of
resourr€s, and early resettlement, if necesru. It shall also address the particular
needs of women from a gender percnactive to ensure their fttll notection from
frxual exPloitation and other sxual and gender-based uiolence committed
a$ainst them. Responses to disaster situations shall include the provision of
seruices, such as psvchoscial su^
livelihood suppoL education,
Dsvcholoflical health, and comprehensive health seruices includina protection
during preanancy.
SECTTOTI 7, PROHIBIfrON OF PRITVTING PUBLISHINC DISPIAY
AND DISTRIBUTIOTY . OF PORNOGRAPHIC SCETIES ON MOWE
TRAILERS' '
rcSTERS BILLBOARDS ATYD OTHER MATERIALS
AND SIMIIAR LITERATURE It shall be unlawful for any person to print,
publish, display or distribute pornographic scenes on moviefFV trailer/show,
poster, billboard, literature, broadcast on radio station+ posting on social media or
any cvber space, and other visual material which treat women as sexo bjects and
commodities.
SECTTON 8, COMPREHETVSIVE SUPPIORT TO WOMETI-SI,RWYORS
OF WOLEIICE, The GU Gouernrnent of Davao through the approoiate
oovernment offices shall orovide a comprehensive support to women-suruivorc of
violene which consist of but not limited to the followino:
a) Immediately conduct an investigation within 24 houn;
b) Provide for counselino and medical sruices for the offended
Bdtu;
c) Gather evidence for the arrest and prosecution of the
offendeg
d) Make a repoft of his ' - invatioation an4 on the basis of
the offended oafty9 testimony and additional evidence, if
any , endorce the same to the oroper proscution office
within 36 hourc from the time of frling, regardles of his ' -
eualuafron of the ca*s'
e) The investioation officer or the examining physician, if
posible of the same sex as the offended party ensures
that only persons expresslv authorized bv the latter arc
allowed inside the room where the investigation or medical
or physical examination is beina conducted;

Ord. No. 0333-20
0 women victims- suruivorc of all forms of violence shall be
registered in a community-basd psychotooical prcgram
that shall assist the women in holi*icaltv rebuitding and
empoweri n g th emselves;
g) All inustigations' ^-ings involving raoe cass and other
forms of uiolence against women conducted in police
stations prosrcutor's office and trial courB shalt rsoonize
the suruivor? social sun ' group as expressly allowed or
requested by the offended party:
h) A temporary shelbr with aopropriate support reruice for
the women in cist's under the manaaement and superuision
nf fha
Cnrial
znd
Offira
(cswpo).
Victims of Violence Against Women and Their Chitdren includino sexuat abuse
and/or other forms of abuse shall be provided Free Legal Seruices by the City
Government of Davao throuqh the Office of Special Counse! on VAWC (OSCVAWC) of the IGDD.
SECTION 9. PROSTITUTION AS A VIOLATION OF WOMEN'S
RIGHTS. Prostitution shall be recognized as a violation of human rights and
exploitation of women who have no real choices for survival. Rescue and
interuention shall be made available.
The CiU Government of Davao shall provide scio-sonomic suppoft seruices for
the women in prostitution both stablishment bad and nonstablishment based,
consistent in iB desire to concretely resoond to their n,actical needs.
SECTION 10. LOCAL MONITORING BOARD FOR VIOLENCE IN
MEDIA. A Local Monitoring Board for movie, print,broadcast and mutti-media,
shall be setup to classiff, censure, prohibit or regulate the exhibition of
materials degrading women. The Board's function shall also extend to video
shops, electronic communication, cable television, books and other forms of
audio visual channels or instruments.
sECTroil 77, creation of women and childrcn prutection Desk
(WCPD) and Anf ' *,ent of WCPD O,ffice, 7h" CW Gon rr*"r, o,
Dauao shall create the WCPD and ant^ t,tt wCpD officer in all t' stations in
Davao CiU b spsificallv handle concerns on women and children.
SECTION 12. ROIE OF FEMALE POLICE OFFICER. Complaints filed
by women on battering and other forms of abuse and/or violence against them
shall be handled by female officers in the local police force who shall undergo
special course on handling cases affecting abused women.
I

Page 16 of45
Ord. No. 0333-20
SECTION 13.
CREATION OF PSYCHOSOCIAL TEAMS There shall
be created a osychosocial teams under the superuision of the City Social Welfare
and Development Office (CSWDO'!, equipped with capacities and skills to orovide
the appropriate psychosocial intervention for women and children-surivors of
violence as well as to the oeroetrators. The team shall be composed of the
following at the minimum:
1. Social Workers
2. Psvchologists
3. Psvchiatric Nurses.
An al!-male Psychosocial team shall also be created in order
to address the appropriate psychosocial interuention should
the peroetrator be male. The interuention mav include,
among others, anoer management.
SECTION 14. AC|S OF SEXAAL HARA,SSMENTIIhe act of so<ual
harassment may be cornmitted by:
a. Catcalling, wolf-whistling, unwanted invitations, misogynistic,
transphobic, homophobic, and sexist slurs;
b. Persistent uninvited comments or gestures on a person's
appearance;
c. Relentless requests for personal details;
d. Statement of sexual comments and suggestions;
e. Public masturbation or flashing of private pdffi, groping,
making offensive body gestures at someone, and other
similar lewd sexua! actions;
f. Any advances, whether verbal or physical, that is unwanted
and has threatened one's sense of personal space and
physical safety. This may include cursing, leering and
intrusive gazing, and taunting;
g. Persistent telling of sexual jokes, use of sexual names; and
h. Stalking.
It may also be committed through online spaces using
information and communications technology by harassing,
intimidating or threatening the victim through:
h.1 Physical, psychological, and emotional threats,
unwanted sexual misogynistic, transphobic,
homophobic and sexist remarks and
comments online whether publicly or through
direct and private messages;
h.2 Invasion of the victim's privacy through
cyberstalking and incessant messaging;

Page 17 of45
Ord. No. 0333-20
h.3 Uploading and sharing without the consent of
the victim any form of media that contains
photos, voice, or video with sexual content;
h.4 Any unauthorized recording and sharing of any
of the victim's photos, videos or any
information online;
h.5 Impersonating identities of victims online or
posting lies about victims to harm their
reputation; or
h.6 Filing false abuse repofts to online platforms to
silence victims.
In workplaces, educationa! and training institutions, genderbased sexual harassment may be committed through an act
or SERIES of acts involving any unwelcome sexual advances,
requests or demands for sexual favors or any act of sexual
nature, whether done verbally, physically, or through the use
of technology such as text messaging or electronic mail or
through any other forms of information and communication
systems that creates a hostile environment affecting an
individual's employment, education, trainin g, job pefformance
and/or oppoftunities, regardless of whether the sexual
advances, requests or demands for sexual favors be accepted
or not.
Other Forms of Sexual Harassment. Pursuant to the
definition orovided by RA 7877 and RA 11313, the followino
constitute other forms of sexual harassment, some of which
are covered by the Revised Penal Code under Acts of
Lasciviousness:
1. oersistent tellino of offensive iokes such as
green jokes or other analogous statements to
someone who finds them offensive or
humiliating:
2. taunting a person with constant talk about sex
and sexual innuendos;
3. disBlaying offensive or lewd pictures and
publications in the workplace;
4. interrooating someone about sexual activities or
ptivate life; during interuiews for employment,
scholarshio orant or any lawful activity aoplied
ferj
5. making offensive hand and body oestures at
someone;
,6. reoeated asking for dates despite verbal
rejection;
7. staring or leering maliciously:
8. touchino. oinching or brushino uo someone's
bodv unnecessarily or deliberately;
9. kissing or embracing someone against her will;
10. requestino sexual favors in exchanoe for good
qFde, obtaining a oood job or promotion, etc.;
I
I

Page 18 of45
Ord. No. 0333-20
11.cursing, whistling or calling a woman in oublic
with words having dirtv connotations or
implications which tend to ridicule, humiliate or
embarrass the woman such as "outa" "boring,,.
"oeste', and other similar terms:
12.anv other unnecessary acts during phvsical
examinations;
13. reouiring women to wear sugoestive or
provocative attire durino interuiews such as job
hirino. promotion. admission.
SECTION ls.ACTS RESULTING TO CYBERCRIME - It shalt be
unlawful andpunishable for any person to engage with, influence or force a minor
or a woman to enoage into any Cvbercrime acts.
ARTICLE II
Political and Public Sphere ofWomen
SECTION l. Declaration of March 8 as International Women's Day.
March 8 shall be declared as a Special Working Holiday for the Cty of Davao
through an Executive Order issued by the City Mayor. There shall be a barangayIevel set of activities on women and the law, current issues affecting and
influencing women, and assessment of women's status in the City of Davao and
other forms of ritical consciousness-raising activities. On or about March 8 of
every year, the Davao Women's Summit shall be organized.
SECTION 2. International Day of Action for Women's Health. The
Local Government of Davao City shal! cause the celebration of the International
Day of Action for Women's Health on May 28 where issues and concerns relative
to the protection and promotion of women's health shall be examined, deliberated,
projected and government action sought.
SECTION 3. 18-DAY CAMPAIGN AGAINST VAWC - There shall be an
annual 18 day campaion against VAWC to raise awareness among all stakeholders
that VAWC ie a nrrhlin iccrro nf
annatrrn Srrrh ramnainn chall ha
conducted during November 25 to December 12 of every calendar vear.
SECTIOil 4. BARATIGAY LEVEL SELF.ORCANIZATIOTI OF WOT'EN,
Self-Organization of women shall be recoonized at the baranaav level which must
be sectoral ' - based to include youna and eldedy women which shall be
assisted by the CiU Social Welfare and Development Office (CSWDO).
SECTION 5. Election of Women Sectoral Representative to the
SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod. Pursuant to RA No. 7160, or the Local Govemment
Code of the Philippines, under Title II, Chapter I, SECTION 41 (c), there shall be
one (1) sectoral representative from the women to the SANGGUNIANG Panglunsod
of Davao City as a concrete manifestation of women's place in local govemance.
Such election of women's sectora! representative shall be made during the
Women's Summit in March of the election year.

Y
Page 19 of45
Ord. No. 0333-20
SECTION 6. qUOTA REPRESET{TATIOI{ OF WOMEN Iil THE CTTY
COUNCIL OF DAVAO.TheCitv Government of Davao is encouraoed Uiat at
leastforty percent (4Oolo)ofthemembercofthe crty council are women.
SECTION 7. REPRESENTATION OF WOMEN IN BARANGAY
DEVELOPMEilT COUNCIL (BDC'I STRUCTURE. The City Government of Davao
alono with the Punong Barangay must be ensured thatatleastforty percent (4oolot
of the members of the BDC are women to strenothen government's recoonition of
women's potentials in each barangay.
SECTION 8, WOTTIETY REPRESENTATIYES TO THE CITY
DEVELOPIIEIIT COUflCIL (CDC' The City shalt ensure that at least qloh of
the members of cDC are women as mentioned in ftction 11 (bt of Ren.,u'
9714 otherwis known as the Magna Carta of Women.
SECTION 9. PEACE BASED ON JUSTICE. The network of women GOs
and NGOs shall be furmally consulted on peace and development issues on the
basis of social equity and justice.
SECfiON 70, WOhIEN IN LAW EIVFTORCEHEflT posfrtoilS. Att
qualified women shall be given an opn . ,'+y to asume key law enforement
Dositions until 50o/o of the persnnel from the police force shall be women in
accordane with *ction 9 (a) of Republic Act 9710 otherwis known as ffie
Magna Qfta of Women.
SECTION 77, Leaal Candidate Quota. All oolitial oarties participatino
in the local elections are encouraged that at least 40o/o of their candidates are
women,
SECTION L2,BA&ANGAY COUilCTL OF WOMEil
CiU of Dauao shall organize iB Barangay Council of Women comprisina of att the
women residenB of the barangay. BCW shall be the consultative body of IGDD in
all matterc releuant to the periodic plannina implementation, monitoring and
evaluation of the ciUS programs, projecB and activities of for and bv women.
The federation of BCW from all barangaus of Davao City shall convene every
March of every year for the WomenS Summit.
SECTION 1. INDIGENOUS AND MORO WOMEN OF DAVAO CITY.
The preseruation of the cultural identity of the indigenous and Moro women shalt
be actively incorporated in all programs and projects of the Local Government of
SECTION 2. CULTURALLY-APPROPRIATES CHOOLS. There shall be
accessible and culturally-appropriate schools for indigenous and Moro peoples in
DavaoCity.
F
t
ARTICLE III
Cultural ldentity of Women

,
Ord. No. 0333-20
SECTION 3. DECLARATION OF INDIGENOUS AND MORO PEOPLES'
AREAS. A suruey of indigenous and Moro peoples'areas in Davao City shall be
undertaken within two vears upon eftctivitLof this Code which shall become the
basis for the indigenous and Moro peoples'areas.
SECTION 4. II{TEGRATED DEVETOPMENT PROGRAM FOR
INDIGENOUS AND MORO WOMEN, The City Government of Davao shall
develop a program that shall facilitate empowerment of the indigenous and Moro
women. Active suppoft for the preservation of the indigenous women's knowledge
of the environment shall be incorporated in the program.
ARTICTE IV
Labor and Employment
SECTION 1. ORIEilTATIOil ON SEXUAL HARASSMENT. AII |oca|
offices, agencies, and establishments or companies, both public and private in
Davao City shall conduct orientation on sexual harassment for their personnel,
provided to them by competent IGDD staff or any of the IGDD accredited seruice
providers. Ceftificate of compliance shall be submitted to the Integrated Gender
and Development Division.
SECTION 2. SETTTTIG-UP OF COTIMITTEE OTI DECORUM AIYD
ilIYESTfGATION (CODI).A Committee On Decorum and Investifation (CODll
shall be set uo in all establishmenB and academic institutions ourcuant to the
provisions of RA 7877 and RA 11313 in the citv to act on comolainB related to
work-related, education-rclated or training-related sexual harassment, involuing
not onlv barangay officials, functionaries as well as other emoloyees within the
local government but also emoloyerc, teacherc, trainerc manage\ suoeruisors
and the like in private establishmenb .
SECTION S.EOUAL ACCESS TO JOB TRAITVITIG AND PROMOTIOTT
No woman shall be deorived ofjob training and promotion on account of her sex,
gender identitv and expression, ethniciV.color creed, rcligion sexual orientation
politial affiliation, and ciuil status.
SECTION 4. GEilDER-SENSffiVE PHYSICAL FACILffiES. A physica!
facility appropriate for a gender-sensitive environment shall be adopted by all
offices, agencies and establishments or companies which shal! help prevent
sexual abuse and other forms of maltreatment in the workplace.
It shall be encouraoed to set uo transparent doors. windows. dividers or
any forms of oaftitions within the establishments.
SECTION 5. TAX INCENTMS FOR BUSINESS ENTITIES. The City
Government of Davao shall provide tax incentives to business entities:
a) any amount used for the establishment, maintenance and
operation of the child day care suppoft system shall be taxdeductible;

Ord. No. 0333-20
b) annual tax credit per child regularly serued for at reast one
year in the Center;
c) annual tax credit per woman e*ended with maternity leave
benefits for breastfeeding.
d) Annual tax credit oer woman extended with VAWC leave
benefits; and
e) Annual tax credit per woman extended with soecia! leave
benefit for women who suffered gynecological disorders.
SECTIOil 6. MONITORING SYSTEM FOR LABOR STANDARDS.A
mechanism shall be installed in the Integrated Gender and Development Division
to monitor the implementation of this Code and other relevant GAD Policies and
other Labor Laws in coordination with the DeparUnent of Labor and Emolovment
in al! offices, agencies and establishments within Davao City.
sEcrroN 7. woMEN PROTECTTON DESK. There shall be an
established Women Protection Desk with a Women Protection Desk Officer or its
eQuivalent within the workolace. educational and training institutions in order to
Quickly respond to immediate complaints and repofts reoarding the violation of
riohts of the women therein.
ARTICLE V
Health Right
SECTION L. BUDGET FOR WOMEIIS HEALTH, A substantiat portion of
the health budoet of the City Government shall be atlocated for women's heatth
and seruices especially those in difficult circumstances.
SECTION 2. UPGRADING OF HEALTH CARE DELIVERY SYSTEM.
Quality health care and seruices that are not discriminatory on account of their
gender identity and expression, sexual orientation, dgl, sex, creed, religion and
ethnicity shall beimplemented in Davao City.
sEcrroN 3. FREE MEDTCAL RourINE cHEcK-up. women in the
entertainment industry shall be afforded with free medical routine check-up and
medicines in need.
SECTION 4. REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CARE DELIVERY. The City of
Davao shall adopt the reproductive health care approach at all levels of health
care delivery. Such approach integrates many issues not previously considered
cenfral to population: sexuality, reproductive tract infection, gender power
relations and domestic violence, and shall not be limited, to family planning and
child bearing.
a

Ord. No. 0333-20
sEcrroN 5. woMEil's coNTRoL ovER THErR BoDrEs.women's
decisions regarding pregnancy shall be given appropriate support and guidance
by all health professionals, private and public, at very minimal cost.
SECTION 6. GENDER-SENSITM CRISIS II{TERVENTION UNIT.The
City Government of Davao shall cause the establishment of a Gender-Sensiuve
Crisis Intervention Unit at all levels of the health care, primary, secondary and
tertiary and shall provide seruice training to all health and other allied perconnel
who shall be assigned in this unit.
SECTION 7. GENDER-FAIR APPROACH TO PREMARITAL
ORIEI{TATION AND COUNSELING PROGRAM.Without prejudice to SECTION.
10, Att. IV of the Davao City Children's Welfare Code. regular reviewinq and
redesi(Ding, when aporopriate, of the Premarital Counselinq Program of the City
Government of Davao shall be jointly undeftaken bv the Inteorated Gender and
Development Division. City Health Office and the Davao City Special Office on
Children's Concerns Citv Social Welfare and Develooment Office and other
concerned aoencies. Agencies involved shall adhere to the orinciole of gender-fair
premarital counselino seruice.
SECTION 8. STRENGTHENING PRIMARY HEATTH CARE
DELMRY. Inconsonance with the Department of Health's thrust and Sec.3.
Art. IV of the Davao City Children's Welfare Code, the Local Government of
Davao City shall strengthen the Primary Health Care Delivery in the context of
reproductive health.
SECTTON 9. WOMEN'S RIGHT TO HEALTH, WOMEN ARE ENTITLED
TO BE GIYETI ACCESS TO A COMPREHENSIVE HEALTH CARE SERWCES
AND ITUAORilATIOTI,
(a) Comprehensive Health Seruices, The City of Davao shatt at att
tim€s, orovide for a comprehensive, culture rensitive, and oender-responsive
health seruices and proorams covering all staaes of a womanb life qrcle and
which addresses the maior causes of womenS mortality and morbidity: Prouide4
Thdt in the prouision for comn.ehensive health seruiceq due respect shall be
accorded to womenb rclioious convictions the riohB of the spouses to found a
familv in accordance with their religious convictions, and the demands of
resr^',sibl€ parenthood and the right of women to protection from hazardous
druos, deuicg, interuentions, and substances.
Access to the following seruices shall be ensured:
1. Maternal care to include pre and postnatal seruices to
addres pregnancy and infant health and nutrition;
2. Hold a birthino home and' - lying-in clinic prouidino
materniU seruices on prenatal and postnatal care normal
spontaneous delivery and care for the newborn;

Ord. No. 0333-20
3. Promotion of breastfedina'
4. Responsible. ethical legaL safe, and etrective rnethods of
family planning'
5. Family and State collaboration in youth sexuality education
and health seruices without prejudice to the primary ight and
duV of parents to educate their childrcn:
6. Provide education and information on human sexualitv and
responsible parenthood in schools, workplaces and
communities'
7. Prevention and management of reprcductive tract infutions,
including sexuallv transmitted diseases, HIV and AIDS;
8. Prevention and management of reoroductive tract cancerc
like breast and ceruical cancerc, and other gynecolooical
conditions and disorderc;
9. Prevention of abortion and management of pregnanq-related
complications;
10.1n cases of violence aaainst women and children, women and
children victims and suruivon shall be orovided/assisted to
appropriate agencies giving comprehensive health seruices
that include psvchosocial therapeutic, medical, and legal
interuentions and assistance towards healing, recovery, and
emoowerment;
ll.Prevention and management of infeftiliV and sexual
dysfunction purcuant to ethical norms and medical standards;
12.Gre of the elderly women bevond their child-bearing yeag
l3.Manaaement, treafrnent and interuention of mental health
problems of women and girls;
14. Healthy lifeslule activities are encouraged and promoted
throuoh Droorems and nroier* es cfrafeoiec in fhe
prevention of diseaxs;
15.Provide reproductive health and rights education'
l6.Develop and implement specific sruices that promote male
involvement, particioation and responsibiliU in reproductive
health as well as other reproductive heafth concerns of
women; and
lT.Provide information and seruica addressino the reproductive
health needs of the marghalize4 older persons, women in
prostitution the differently-abled n.rsons and women in war
crisis situations.
(b)Comorchensive Heallh fnformation and Education. -
The ciV shall provide women in all sectorc with aBpropriate
timely, complete. and accurate information and education of all
the above-stated aspecB of women? health in government
education and training programs wittr due reaard to the
followina:

Ord. No. 0333-20
1) The natural and primaru rioht and duty of paren9 in
character;
2) The formation of a percon? rexualitv that affirms
human dionitu; and
3) Ethical, legal safe and effective family ptannina
ARTICLE VI
Education Right
sEcrroN 1. EDUCATToN FoR woMEN. sunday ctasses for women
shall be held in all baranoav high schools in Davao Citv to facititate workinn
women's access to education.
All women desiring to enoage themselves in functional and practical
education shall be enlisted in adult education program. which shall be setup in all
barangays in DavaoCiW.
sEcrroN 2. PRoMorroN oF GENDER-sENsrrIvE cuRRrcuta. The
schools in Davao City shalt actively promote gender-sensitive professional school
counseling and career education programs to encourage females to pursue
academic and technicall courses in order to widen their future career
oppoftunities.
The schools in Davao city shall also promote Gender mainstreaming to
Drevent discrimination to address both males and females'concerns, and assure
their FafticiPation in schools pursuant to CHED Memorandum Order No. 1, SERIES
of 2015.
SECTION 3. MONITORING AND REPORTING OF STEREOTYPED
PORTRAYAL OF ROLES OF WOMEN AND MEN IN EDUCATIONAL
MATERIALS. The Integrated Gender and Development Division shall coordinate
closely with the City Division of Schools, Davao AssociaUon of Colleges and
Schools and other network of schools in monitoring and reporting of stereotyped
poftrayal of roles of women and men as projected in education materials.
sEcrroN 4. GAD EtEcrrvE couRsE. A Gender and Devetopment
Elective Course shall be developed, formulated, imptemented and carried out in
the City College of Davao.
ARTICLE VII
Socio-Economic Benefits for Women
SECTIOT! 7, RTGHT TO LTYELIHOOD CREDIT CAPTTAL AND
TECIIilOLOGY. - The City Government of Dauao shatt ensure that women are
prouided with the following:

Ord. No. 0333-20
a) Equal access to fonnal surces of credit and ca^ital.
b) Eaual share to the produce of farms and aquatic
resources: and
c) Emplowent opportunities for rcturnina women
migrant workerc taking into account their skills and
qualifications. Corollarily the city shall als
.
skills and entrepreneurshi^ develonnent of returnino
women migrant workerc.
SECTION 2, ACCESS TO SAFE WATER - All baranoavs in Davao Citv
shall prouide easv access to sfe water sun t, Aporopriate systems shall be
installed to eare women's workload.
SECTIOII 3. MAGIIEGOSYO TA DAY- Oualified women shalt be oiven
access to th€ MagnEtosvo Ta Da.v Prmram ensurina that thev are given livelihood
on^ ' -' ' through start-up oranB for their innovative busineses.
ARTICTE VIII
Rural Women's Rights
SECTION 1. LAND FORWOMEN-HEADED HOUSEHOTDS AND
LANDLESS FAMILIES. Idle lands shall be distributed to qualified womenheaded households and landless families interested and committed to till the
land upon issuance of a Memorandum of Agreement between the pafties
concerned. Ownerchip of such land shall be granted to women-headed
households and landless families after ten yearc of continuous tillage. Support
seruices shall be delivered by the Local Government of Davao City as part of the
Memorandum of Agreement.
SECTION 2, ACCESS TO SCIENCE AND WOMEN-FRIENDIY
AITERilATM TECHNOLOGY EDUCATIOil. The City Agriculturists's Office of
Davao City inconjunction with the Department of Science and Technology and
other related line agencies should establish a science and women-friendly
alternative technology center for rural women in each barangay.
SECTIOil 3, PROMOTION OF LAND-BASED PROJECTS. The City
Government of Davao shall promote and suppoft land-based project sensuring
food security for rural women utilizing science, women- friendly and appropriate
technology instilling collectivism.
ARTICLE IX
Special Sectoral Concerns
SECTION 7. ADVOCACY ON DIFFERENTLY.ABLED WOMEN'S
RfGHTS,Active advocaq on the righB of differentlfabled women shalt be
conducted bv the Inteorated Gender and Development Division in coordination
with the CiU fucial Welfare and Development Office (CSWDO\ - Percons with
DisbiltU Affais Office (PDAO\ and other aoencies that advocate on women.

t,.
Ord. No. 0333-20
There shall be a specia! education school for differentlyabled women in Davao City which shall offer appropriate
technology curricula.
SECTION 2.INNOVATIVE EMPLOYMEilT OPPORTUNMES FOR
DIFFERENTTY-ABIED WOMEil. The City Government of Davao shall develop
innovative or approoriate employment opportunities for differently-abled women
recognizing their differentiated conditions and full potentials as human persons.
SECTION 3. REPORTING OF CASES OF HARASSMENT COMMITTED
AGAINST DIFFERENTLY-ABLED WOMEN. The City Government of Davao
through its Integrated Gender and Development Division shall require all
barangays to monitor and repoft cases of harassment and other forms of violence
committed against differently-abled women.
SECTION 4. PARTICIPATION OR REPRESENTATION OF
DIFFERENTLY-ABLED AND ELDERLY WOMEil.Each baranoav shall ensure
the oarticipation or reoresentation of elderly women and differentlv-abled within
the Baranoay Council for Women in order to advance the interest of this special
group of women.
SECTIOil s.ffi
FOR THE ETDERLY WOMEI{.Funds
shall be allocated for assistance and psychological help for the elderly women to
include, but not limited to, emergency assistance, routine physical check-up,
social group work program and appropriate socioeconomic activities.
The funds shall be taken from the Annual GAD Budget of the Loca!
Government Unit of Davao City in accordance with the General Appropriations Act
(GAA) and other related laws.
SECTOil 6, Suppoft to Women Deprived of Libertv. The rights of all
women deprived of liberW shall be orotected in the bllowing:
a) Speedy trial of their cases shall be ensured by all concerned.
To ensure speedy trial of their cases. free legal seruices, if
opted bLthe detainee. shall be given to her by the local
governmenU
b) An appropriate proqram shall be designed to respond to their
soecific needs and problems as women person deprived of
liberU. A woman detainee shall be protected against all
aspects of sexual abuse. A male iail guard or any other
oerson charoed in custody of the woman detainee shall be
orohibited within the area unless circumstances would deem
it necessary; and
c) Separate structure and space for detention and rehabilitation
shall be provided.

.,t
Ord. No. 0333-20
SECTION T.RESPECT FOR WOMEN,S SEXUAL ORIENTATION,
CUTTURAL IDENTITY. GENDER IDENTITY AND EXPRESSION. RELIGION
AND POLITICAL AFFILIATION, AND ECONOMIC STATUS AND
BELIEF.Women's rioht to sexual orientation, gender identity, and expression. as
well as cultural identity, relioion, political affitiation. and economic status and
belief shall be respected and protected at all times and in ail spheres.
ARTICLE X
Womenand Children Suppoft System
SECTION 7, EARLY CHILDHOOD CARE AND DEUELOPMENT AITD
CHfLD'DlilIDfNG CEflTERS.The Citv Government of Dauao shalt ensure that
Early Childhood Care and Development in att barangays and Chitd-Minding
Cente6 in every district are set up to frre women from other activities such as
taking a iob or going back to school without preiudice to the Davao CW Chitdreng
Welfare Code.
SECTIOIY 2, PAREIITAL AUTHORIW,The father and mother shalt iointly
€x€rcifi n^ "tdl authority over the rorcons of their ommon children. In case of
difigreement the couple shall consult their famitv counsel or shalt brino the
matter before the LupongTaga^^rta^^, 1 ^ for conciliation except in ass
violatino RA 9262.
SECTIOfiI 3. WOMEN fN SPIORTS,The City shall develop establish. and
*renothen pragrams for the pafticipation of women and girt-children in
competitive and noncompetitive sWrB as a means to achieve excellence,
promote ohysical and social well-being eliminate gender-role stereotyping, and
orovide equal access to the full benefits of development for all percons regardless
of sex, aender identW and other similar factors.
SporB tournament/s held by the Citv or thox done within the City shall
offer or award eoual qtor8 prize witt resput to iB amount or value to women
and men winnerc in the same soorB atEpru.
ARTICLE XI
GenderandDevelopment
sEcrroU 7, GAD rNSTrrurroIlAL MECHAIVTSMS, purcuant to RA
9710 the citv Government of Davao shall ensure the imn' '
*^*bn of the
followino institutional mechanisms:
a) creation and/or strengthening of the LGIJ GAD Focal Point system
(GFPS.t:
b) Establishment and maintenance of GAD database'
c) Gender and Develooment (GADI plannino and budoeting.
d) Mainstreaming gender perspedtues in local development plans.
e) Periodic reuiew and enhancement and implementation of the LGU
GAD Code' and
)Uonitoring and evalua
Women.
\

Ord. No. 0333-20
SECTIOM, Maintenance of 6AD Database, Pursuant to the Women
Development Code and the Magna Carta of Women, the City shall maintain a sexdisaggregated data which shall form oart of ib GAD Database and will be
analqed appro '*ely by GFPS for onsideration in ib annual GAD Planning and
Budgeting. The IGDD shall be the repositoru and custodian of the city's GAD
Database.
SECTION 3, GFB CAPACITY.BUTLDIIIG ACTIWLTES, The Citv
Government of Davao shall ensure that all memberc of GFPS including elected
local officials and fundionaries underao capacitv buildino proorams on GAD which
shall include, but not be limited to:
a) Gender SensitiviU Trainino (GST1,'
b) Gender-responsiue planning and budoeting
c) Gender analysis;
d) Gender audit; and
e) GAD tools such as:
i.
Gender Mainstreaming Eualuation Framework:
ii. Gender Responsive LGU Ka Ba (GeRL Ka Ba.t
Self-Assessment Tool'
iii. Harmonized Gender and Development
Guidelines; and
iv. Other GAD tools.
SECTION 4. THE GENDER AND DEVELOpDIENT (GAD) pLAN.The
GAD Plan is a systematicallv designed set of programs proj*t and activities
caried out by an agency over a given period of time. It addreses gender issues
and concerns of the agenq's clients and iB personnel and is an integral part of
the agenqS annual agenu/Development Plan.
The GAD budget which is the cost of implementing the GAD plan shall be not less
than 5o/o of the CiU's vearly budget and shall form oart of and is not in addition
to the C1US Annual Budoet.
For effective planning and implementation of GAD PPAs, essential elemeng in
GAD olannino and budgeting should be in place such as consultation with
emplovees and constituencies through accredited women or n ople '" sciety
oraanizations among otherc to ensure the relevance of their GPBs adherence to
Executive Order 43 s. 2011 (Social Contrat' [bottom-un Budgetingl capacity
development on oender mainstreaming, gender-responsive olanning and
budgetina, gender analysis and gender assessment for GFPS. GPB
implementation should not be affected by austeriV measures.
In identifuing GAD PPAs prioritv is given to emeroing and' . continuino issues and
concerns on:
a. Provision of basic seruices and facilities to protect and fulfill
women's human riohb includingthe riaht to protection from all
forms of uiolence'

Ord. No. 0333-20
b. Women? economic empowerment including women's
pafticipation in economic governance;
c. Participation in local governance and decision-making: and
d. Other provisions of the Maona Carta of Women.
Preparation and submission of GAD Plan shall be one (1) year ahead. The sme
shall be accompanied by a GAD Accomplishment Report during the previous vear.
Forms used shall be that presribed by TDILG and trW,
SECTIOT! 5, ORGANIZING OF TIEN AS PARTNERS ITY GAD, AII
barangays in the CiU shall facilitate the organization of men within their localitv to
serue as partnerc of the BCtl/ and the CiU, in general, in all of iB GAD advmcies
and' - endeavorc. Specifically. MenS ResponsibiliU on Gender and Development
(MR QAQ\ progrrams shall sek to reach out to men in barangays to collutively
disuss, learn and initiate activities as men, to promote equality of men and
women and to end all forms of discrimination and violence aaainst women hence
promoting peace and harmony in the communiV.
SECTION 6. ACTM SUPPORT TO GENDER STUDIES. A sufficient
amount shall be allotted to gender-related documentation and researches which
shall form part of Davao Cit/s data-based program development.
SECTION 7. POPULARIZATIOil OF GEilDER-FAIR MATERIAIS.
There shall be an active promotion and publication of gender-fair material in
popular forms in DavaoCity.
SECTION 8.
INTEGRATED GENDER.SENSITIVE AND
EilVIRONMENT FRIENDTY ZOI{IFICATION PLAN OF DAVAO CITY. An
Integrated gender+ensitive and environment-friendly zonification plan of Davao
City shall constitute the following, but not limited to:
a) Relocation of communities shall not deprive women of
their sources of livelihood.
b) Relocation sites shall not contribute to an increase in
women's burden in economic, home, and social
production.
c) Housing and industrial project sites shall be those
unproductive lands unsuitable for economic purposes.
d) Industrial center for light industry shall be placed in key
districts of Davao City while heavy industry shall be
cenUalized in oned istrict.
SECTION 9. COMMUNITY.BASED ENVIRONMENTAL PLANS AND
PROGRAMS. Both men and women shall participate in pollution control,zero-waste
technology development and management, preseruation of the forest, marine and
aquatic resources and indigenous reforestation with due respect for the
indigenous and Moro peoples culture and rights to self - determinaUon.

Ord. No. 0333-20
SECTION TO. GENDER.SENSITIVE NATURAL RESOURCES-BASED
MANAGEMEIIT PROGRAMS. The Local Government of Davao City shall engage
it self in the development of gender sensitive natural resources-based
management programs.
SECTION 11. ROLE OF WOMEI{ IN ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
ASSESSMENT OF PROJECTS. The Local Government of Davao City shall
promote the active role of women in environmental impact assessment and shall
consciously determi ne sex disag gregateddata.
SECTION 12. PROMOTION OF APPROPRIATE TECHNOTOGY. The
Local Government of Davao City shall actively promote an alternaUve technology
that is appropriate and safe for women.
SECTION 13. CREATION OF RESOURCE MANAGEMENT COUNCIL.
Each barangay shall create a resource management council which shall ensure
promotion and protection of ecological balance and full pafticipation of women.
SECTION 14. SUFFICIENT BUDGET FOR BASIC SOCIAL SERVICES.
A sufficient amount for the basic social seruices for women and children in
extremely difficult circumstances shall be allocated from all sources of funds.
SECTIOI{ 15. INVESTMEilT AND LOANS. The City Government of
Davao shall hold consultative assemblies with women GOs and NGOs in
establishing contracts for loans and investments to clariff implications on women's
welfare and development at the Barangay level.
SECTION 76, OVERSEAS ETLTPilVO',S (OF',q WryES AIVD CHTLDREN
SUPPORT, The Local Government of Dauao CiU shall conduct at the barangav
level a suruey of Overceas Filipino Worken rcsult of which shall srue as basis for
special support to women and children.
SECfiON 77, SPECIAL COURSE ON OF9, A spsial ourre on over*as
contact work primarilv to orient women on the issues and concerns relative to
migration shall be systematically introduced b all women espsiallv at the
baranaav level.
SECTIOil 18. EDUCATION Oil NATIOilAt POUCIES. Women and
Men shall undeftake education on national policies and their implications on
women.
SECTION 19. SPECIAL TRAINING AI{D CAPACXTY.BUILDIilG FOR
ALL SERVICE PROVIDERS. A special para-legal training and capacity-building for
all Service providerc shall be conducted along gender question and related matters.

Ord. No. 0333-20
SECTION 20. GEilDER SENSMZATIOil AS A MEASURE,
ASSESSMENT OR PART OF ORIENTATION TO EMPLOYIIIENT AND
PROMOTIOI{. There shall be a gender-sensitive assessment to be conducted
by the Gender and Development Office to all concerned as a measure to hiring
and promotion of personnel.
SECTION 21. GENDER AND POPULATION. The City Health Office
throuoh the Population Division shall review and redesign the population
program so that it becomes not contraceptive-based but reproductive health
conscious.
SECTION 22. TRAINING ON NON.TRADMOilAL OCCUPATION.
Women shall be given oppoftunity to acquire training on non-traditional
occupation such as those related to science and technologies.
SECTIOil 23. WOMEI{ PROTECTION DESK - There shall be a Women
Protection Desk in all levels of establishment that will serve as quick response to
the immediate concerns regardino violation of women's rioht.
SECTION 24.
Aoainst Traffickinq and Violence Aoainst Women and Children (LCATVAWC) shall be established.
The followino are the members of the Citv Committee on AntiTrafficking and -Violence Against Women and their Children:
CiW Mayor as the Chairperson
City Planning and Development Coordinator
City Social Welfare and Development Officer as the
Secretariat
City Health Officer
Family Relations of the SANGGUNIANG Panlunosod
City Prosecutor
DILG City Director
Davao CiW Police Office Director
10.NGO Representatives of the followino sectors:
a. Women;
b. Children; and
c. Overseas Filipino Workers.
The LCAT-VAWC shall be chaired bv the Local Chief Executive or her designated
representative and likewise designate the Co-chair of the LCAT-VAWC as well as
decide on organizational matters affecting the performance of its functions.
Ponerc and Functions of LCAT - VAWC of Davao City.The Loca! Committee
on Anti-traffickino and Violence Aoainst Women and Children of Davao City shall
have the followingpowersandfunctions.
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
Chairperson of the Committee on Women, Children. and
City Public Emoloyment Seruices Officer

Ord. No.0333-20
a) Institute policies and i programs to protect women and
children who are victims of traffickino and violence;
b) create and establish systems on surueillance. investioations,
and rescue to ensure effective and efficient coordination:
c) Undeftake information. education. and advocacv campaion
aoainst trafficking in persons and VAWC;
d) Monitor and oversee the strict implementation of RA 920g.
RA 9262, and other related laws for the protection of women
and children, and of the IACAT and IACVAWC national olans
of action.
e) Undertake guidance and counseling to women abroad as
fianc6es of foreign nationals regardino protection of women
and children aoainst trafficking and violence;
D Make representations to schools and universities for the
inclusion of migration and its implications for women in ail
levels of curricula;
g) Refer trafficked pemns and vidinrs of VAWC to appropriate
agencies;
h) Formulate a program for returning ffid<ed oemns and
victims of VAWC incooperation with local officers of
DOLE,TESDA and other government agencies involved in
training and livelihood development;
i) Secure assistance from any of the local government units,
departments or bureaus of the national government;
j) Exercise all powers and functions necessary to attain its
purposes and objectives.
sEcrroN 25. crrY GAD FocAL POINT SYSTEM (GFps). A Locar
Gender and Development Focal Point System for the CiW of Davao shall
be established.
The City GFPS shall adhere to the structure and composition orovided for in the
MCW-IRR as follows:
1. To carry out its functions, the LGU GFPS shall have an Executive
Committee (ExeCom), a Technical Working Group and/or a
Secretariat.
2. The CiW Mayor shall also designate an alternate Chair and ViceChair for GFPS.
3. The GFPS TWG Chair shall be elected among the GFPS TWG
members. The designation of the GFPS TWG Chair shall be made
official throuoh the issuance of a Memorandum duly signed bv
the CiW Mayor and endorsed by his or her immediate supervisor
or concerned LGU Department Head. The GFPS TWG Chair mav
designate a secretariat to assist the TWG in its functions.
4. The Baranoav GFPS shall be chaired bv the Punong Barangay,
co-chaired by the Chair of the SANGGUNIANG Barangay Committee
on Women, Children and Family Relations, with the following as
the members:

Ord. No. 0333-20
i. Sangouniang Baranoay Committee on
Aoprooriations
ii. SK Chairperson
iii. Barangay Health Worker
iv. Barangav Treasurer
v. Violence Aoainst Women (VAW) Desk Officer
vi. Baranoay Nutrition Scholar
vii. Tanod Executive Officer
viii. Day Care Worker Lupong Tagapamayapa
member
ix. Women's oroanizations existing at the Baranoav
level
x. Barangay Human Rights Action Officer, where
existent
xi. Members of the private sector and academe. as
.prr.pri.t.
The Barangav secretaru shall orovide secretariat support to
theBarangay GFPS.
5. All LGUs shall ensure that al! members of the GFps incruding
elected loca! officials and deoartment heads underoo caoacitv
building proorams on GAD which shall include. but not be limited
to: gender sensitivity training (GST). gender-responsive plannino
and budgeting, oender analysis. gender audit and GAD tools
such as the Gender Mainstreaming Evaluation Framework
(GMEF).
Resoonsive LGU Ka Ba (
Ka Ba) Selfassessment Tool. Harmonized Gender and Develooment
Guidelines (HGDG) and other succeeding GAD tools.
General Functions of the LGU GFPS
Pursuant to the MCW-IR& GFPS is tasked to ensure and sustain the LGU's critical
consciousness in suppoftino gender and development. women's empowerment
and resoonding to gender issues. It shal! take a lead role in direction-settino,
advocacy, olanning. monitorino and evaluation, and technical advisoru in
mainstreaming GAD perspectives in the LGU orograms. projects, activities and
processes. Soecificallv, GFPS shall pefform the followino functions:
a. Lead in mainstreaming GAD oerspectives in LGU oolicies plans
and programs. In the orocess. thev shall ensure the assessment
of the oender-responsiveness of systems, structures. policie+
oroorams, processes, and procedures of the LGU based on the
prioriW needs and concerns of constituencies and employees,
and the formulation of recommendations including their
imolementation;
b. Assist in the formulation of new oolicies and enhancement of
existino policies such as the Women Development Code in
advancino women's emoowerment and oender equality;
c. Lead in setting uo appropriate systems and mechanisms to
ensure the generation, processing, review, and uodating of sexdisaggreqated data or GAD database to serue as basis in
performance-based and gender-responsive plannino and
budgeting;

Ord. No. 0333-20
d. coordinate efforts of different divisions/offices/units of the LGU
and advocate for the inteoratign of GAD perspectives in all their
systems and processes:
e. Spearhead the oreparation of the annual and peformancebased Davao CiW GAD Plan and Budget (GPBI in response
to the gender issues and concerns of their locality and in the
context of the LGU mandate and consolidate the same,
following the form and procedures prescribed in DILG, DBM,
PCW, and NEDA JMC No. 2013 - 01.
t. Lead in monitoring the effective implementation of the annual
GP4 GAD Code, and other GAD related policies and plans;
g
of the annual
LGU GAD
Accomplishment Repoft (GAD AR) and other GAD reoorts
that mav be required under the MCW and DILG, DBM, pCW,
and NEDAJMC No. 2013 - 01:
Strengthen linkaoes with other LGUs concerned aoencies or
organizations workino on women's rights and oender and
development to harmonize and synchronize GAD effofts at
various levels of local governance;
Promote and actively pursue the oarticipation of women and
gender advocates. other civil society groups and orivate
organizations in the various stages of develooment planning
cycle; oivino attention to marginalized sectors; and
Ensure that all Lersonnel of the LGU including the Blanning and
finance officers (e.9. accountants. budget officeq auditors) are
capacitated on GAD. Along this line, GFPS will recommend and
olan an aporopriate capacitv development orogram on GAD for
its employees as oart of and implemented under its regular
human resource development program.
Roles and Resoonsibilities of the LGU GFPS
a. The City Mavor shall:
i. Issue policies and/or directives that suppoft gender mainstreamino
in tha nnliriac nlanc DDAc anrl
rae nf tha I GII ac well ac tha
budget, systems, processes and procedures of the LGU. including
the creation, strengthening. modification or reconstitution of GFPS;
d
ii. Ensure the implementation of GPB and approve GAD AR and other
GAD-related reports of the LGU as mavbe required by the MCWfPP anrl nTl G nRM Dal ,
NFDA IMC Nn ?nl? - nl
b. The GFPS Executive Committee shall:
i. Provide policy advice to the CiW Mayor to suppoft and
strengthen GFPS and the LGU's gender
mainstreaming effofts;
ii. Direct the identification of GAD strategies. PPAs and
targets based on the results of gender analvsis and
oender assessment, taking into account the
identified priorities of the LGU and the oender issues
and concerns faced by the LGU's constituents and
employees;
the
Lead
h
i.
j
I

Ord. No. 0333-20
iii. Ensure the timely submission of the LGU GPB, GAD AR
and other GAD+elated reoofts to DILG which shall be
cgnsolidated for submission to PCW and aoprooriate
overcioht agencies:
iv. Ensure the eftctive and efficient imBlementation of
the GAD PPAs and the judicious utilization of the GAD
budqet:
v. Build and strenothen the paftnership of the LGU with
concerned stakeholders such as women's groups or
CSOs, national government aoencies, GAD experts and
advocates, among others, in pursuit of oender
mainstreaming:
vi. Recommend awards and/or incentives to recognize
outstanding GAD PPAs or individuals who have made
ex,emBlarv contributions to GAD.
c. The Technical Workino Group (TWG) shal!:
Facilitate the gender mainstreaming effofts of the LGU
through the GAD planning and budoeting process:
Formulate the LGU GPB in response to the gender
gaps and issues faced bv their constituents including
their women and men employees;
Assist in the capadW and competency development
and provide technical assistance to the offices or units
of the LGU. In this regard, the TWG shall work with
the Human Resource Manaqement Office (HRMO) on
the develooment and implementation of a caoacity
development program on GAD for its employee. as
necessry;
Coordinate with the various units/offices of the LGU
and ensure their meaningful oarticipation in strateoic
and annual planning exercises on GAD including the
preparation, consolidation and submission of GPBs;
Lead the conducf of advocacv activities and thp
development of information, education and
communication (IEC) materials to ensure critical
support of local elected officials. department heads
and staff, and relevant stakeholders to the GFPS and
to gender mainstreaming;
vi. Monitor the implementation of GAD-related PPAs and
suggest corrective measures to imorove their
implementation;
vii. Prepare and consolidate LGU GAD ARs and other GADrelated reports; and
viii. Provide reoular updates and recommendations to the
LCE or GFPS ExeCom regarding GFPS'activities and
the process of the LGU in oender mainstreaming based
on the feedback and reports of concerned LGU
offices/u n its. stakeholders and constituents.
i.
ii.
iii
iv
v

Page 35 bf 45
Ord. No. 0333-20
d. The GFPS Secretariat. and wh
r feasible the GAD office or unit
desiEnated by the LCE shall assist the GFPS ExeCom and the TWG in the
performance of their roles and responsibilities, soecifically on the provision
of administrative and looistical services; preparation of meeting agenda;
and documentation of GFPS'meetinos and related GAD activiUes.
6. In the event of a chanoe in local administration. the remaining members of
the GFPS ExeCom and TWG shall facilitate the immediate reconstitution of
the GFPS and the conduct of GST and other GAD competency
development activities for newly-elected local officials.
7. LGUs, through , their GFP1 shall strenothen their linkages and/or
paftnershios with the local offices of the NGAs, private sector. academe,
Official Development Assistance (ODA) paftners and other stakeholders in
pursuit of their oender mainstreaming efforts.
SECTION 26, THE INTEGRATED GENDER AND DEVETOPMENT
OFFICE (IGDO). A seoarate ordinance creatino the Inteorated Gender
and Development Office shall be enacted within five (5) vearc followino
the aoproval of this Ordinance. Such legislative enactnent shall
orovide the structure, powerc and functions, proorams, oerconnel, and
aoorooriations, amono otherc. At the minimum, the operations of the
current IGDD shall be transferrcd to IGDO.
The IGDO shall be primarily responsible in ensurino the implementation
of this Code alono with its cpordination, monitorino and evaluation
functions. In the interim, the IGDD shall aooropriate uoon itself the
duties and functions to implement the orovisions of this Ordinance.
BOOK II- FINAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER I. PENAL PROVISIONS
ARTICLE I
Violence Against Women and Children
SECTION 1. Soliciting Women's Seruies. It is unlawftrl for a percon to
solicit a women's seruice for sexual purposes as gift, representation, public
relations,or as an act of good will regardless of whether the solicitor profits or not
from such act without prejudice to the provisions of the Revised Penal Code.
Any witness may file a complaint together with the affected women to the
proper court. Penalty for such is a fine of P5,000 or imorisonment of one year.
SECTION 2. OTHER FORMS OF TRAFFICKING IN WOMEN. Any
person or agency who with the use of force or deceit, lures a woman to work
abroad or in other provinces or cities in the Philippines for a pafticular job on a
promise of high fees, but instead landed on prostitution, domestic help or other
odd jobs. Violators of this provision shall be penalized by imprisonment of one
year or a fine of P5,000.00 or both, at the discretion of the couft.

Page 37,of 45
Ord. No. 0333-20
sEcrIoN 3. sExrRADE. Any agency or percon who shall engage in
keeping women for sex for a fee shall suffer the penalty inaccordance with the
Revised Penal Code.
SECTION 4. SEXTOURS. No hotels, beach resorG, sauna baths, and
related establishments shall be allowed to operate as conduit for sex tours.
CancellaUon of business permit a fine of P5r0OO.00 and imprisonment of one
year shall constitute the penalty for violation.
SECTION 5. *BEAUTY' COilTEST. Beauty Contests which tend to
commodiff, abuse, humiliate, and treat women as sex objects shall be strictly
prohibited in schools, communities, barangays, and by the City Government in its
special celebrations, but in their stead the projection of women's strengths and
potentials, especially with regard to indigenous and culturally-relevant forms shall
be encouraged.
Those who initiated the conceptualization and implementation of the beauty
contest shall be subjected to a penalty consisting of the following:
For business organizations:
a) Cancellation of business permi$
b) Fine of P5,000; and
c) Others, as prescribed in the Implementing Rules and
Regulations of this Code.
For representative of agencies, depaftments or units of the Local
Government of Davao City:
a) Suspension for one month without pay;
b) Fine of P5,000.00; and
c) Others, as prescribed in the Implementing Rules and
Regulations of this Code.
For educational institutions, charity or welfare organizations:
a) Cancellation of licenses to operate;
b) Fine of P5,000.00; and
c) Otherc, as prescribed in the Implementing Rules and
Regulations of this code.
SECTION 6. FUND RAISING INITIATMS. All fund raising initiaUves
as defined in this Code shall be strictly prohibited in Davao City. Violators of this
provision shall pay a fine of P5,000 or imprisonment of six months, or both at the
discretion of the court.
SECTION 7, WOMEN IN ARMED CONFTICT SITUATION.
a) No women shall be deprived of basic social seruices in
armed conflict areas.

Ord. No. 0333-20
b) No women or girl children shall be kept by any
PNP/military personnel in police/military detachmenvcheck
point or any analogous quarter for purposes of comfuft.
The violation shall be penalized through summary dismissa! proceeding of the
local AFP/PNP and/or at the discretion of the Couft.
SECTION 8. CONSCIOUS SITRYEILLATICE OF ENTERTAINMENT
ESTABLISHMEIIT9, A reoular Task Force shall be created to conduct onscious
surueillance of entertainment establishments exploiting women. Failure of the
Task Force to submit weeklvreporBhallbesubjectedtoanadministativesanction.
The Task Force shall consist of the Citv Health Office (CHet, Oty fucial Wetfare
and Develo^ ' Offie (CSWDOI Business Bureatl Dauao Citv Potie Offie
(DCPO\ and a Ouil Society Organization b fu reammended bv the members of
ARTICLE II
Cultural ldentity of Women
SECTIONI. INDIGENOUS AND MORO CULTURAT PRACTICES.
Indigenous and Moro women shall be allowed enrollment in schools and colleges
and enjoy employment opportunities without prejudice to their birth and marriage
rituals where no birth and marriage certificates are issued as evidence of such life
events.Failure to comply with this provision shall be subjected to a maximum fine
of P5,000.
Implementing Rules and Regulations of this SECTION shall include issuance of
certificate by the local offices of the Office of Southern Cultural Communities and
National Commission on Mudim Filipinos identiffing cultural community affiliation.
ARTICLE III
Labor and Employment
sEcTroN 1. EQUAL ACCESS TO JOB TRArNrilc AND PROMOTTON.
No woman shall be deprived of job training and promotion on account of her sex,
gender, 0g€, ethnicity, creed, religion and civil status. Violations by private
employers shall constitute a fine of P5,000.00 and cancellation of business permit
or as prescribed by the coutt. Government unit or agency head of office i5 liable
with the penalty of threemonth suspension and a fine of P5.000.00
sEcrroN 2. wage and Benefits for women. Every employer shail
comply with the minimum wage as stipulated by the Regional Wage Board or
passed by Congress and shall grant all benefits to all women employees such as
maternity leave, sick and vacation leave, retirement, termination and other
benefits provided by law. Violation by private employerc shall constitute a fine of
P5,000.00 and cancellation of business permit or as prescribed by the Court.
Government unit or agency head of office is Iiable with the penalty of three
months suspension and a fine of P5,000.00.
\

Ord. No. 0333-20
SECTION 3. FACILMES AND SUPPORT SYSTEMS FOR WOMEN.
The City Government of Davao shall ensure the safety and health of women
employees. Inappropriate cases, It shallrequire employers to:
a. Provide seats proper for women and permit them to use such
seats when they are free from work and during working hours.
Provided they can pedorm their duties in this position without
detriment to efficiency;
b. Establish separate toilet rooms, lavatories and lounge for men
and women and provide at least a dressing room for women;
c. Establish a nursery or a child mindinq center in the workplace
for the benefit of the women employees therein; and
d. Provide breast feeding centers for women in the workplaces.
violation by private employers shall constitute a fine of Php5,000.00 and
cancellation of business permit or as prescribed by the Couft. Government unit or
agency head of office is liable with the penalty of three months suspension and a
fine of P5.000.00.
sEcrroN 4. REPRoDUcrrvE HEALTH sERvIcES. Big companies as
defined under the Labor Code, as well as labor intensive establishments shall
provide reproductive health seryices to working women regardless of civil status as
a manifestation of concern for women's role in social production. CancellaUon of
business permit or license to operate and a fine of P5,000.00 shall constitute the
penalty for violation of this provision.
SECTION 5. ORIENTATIOil Oil SEXUAT HARASSMENT. AII |ocaI
offices agencies and establishments or companies, government and private, in
Davao City shall conduct annual orientation on sexual harassment. Failure to
comply with this provision shal lpay a fine of not less than P3,000.00 or at the
discretion of the Couft. The head of office shall be held liable through an
admi n istrative sa nction.
SECTION 6. GENDER-SENSITM PHYSICAL PLANT. A physical plant
appropriate for a gender-sensitive environment shall be adopted by all offices,
agencies and establishments or companies, which shall help prevent sexual
harassment, sexual abuse and other forms of abuse and maltreafirent in
workplaces.
Monitoring team shall be composed of representative of the Offices of the City
Engineer's Office. City Social Welfare and Development Office and Integrated
Gender and Development Divisoin to conduct inspection incompliance with the
above provision.
Failure to comply this provision shall mean payment of a fine and suspension of
business permit or license to operate for three months. For Local Government
Depaflrnent or agency, an administrative sanction shall be imposed for which the
Head of Office shall be held liable.

Ord. No. 0333-20
SECTION 7. Increase Maternity Leave Benefits as Incentives for
Breastfeedino Motherc in the Public and Private Sector. In accordance
with RA 11210. Maternity leave benefits of 105 days shall be extended to all
women employees (oublic and orivate) who have rendered at least one vear of
continuous seruice, provided that 105 davs of the leave period shal! be used for
breastfeeding her newborn baby.
Employer who violates this provision shall pay a fine of P5,000.00 and a
suspension of business permit or license to operate for six months. For Local
Government deparfirent or agency, an administrative sanction shall be imposed.
SECTIOI{ 8. BARAI{GAY.BASED IGSAMBAHAY SUPPORT. AII
barangays in Davao City shall conduct compulsory education for both
Kasambahav and Kasambahay employers on gender-sensitivity. An administrative
sanction shall be imposed.
SECTION 9, RESCUE, Police, together with the scial workerchall b paft
in tlte conduct of rescues in entertainment establishmenB. Violation of this
provision shall be subjected to an administrative sanction.
ARTICTE IV
Health Right
SECTION 1. REPRODUCTTUE HEALTH SERWCES NOR ALL
HOSPITALS, No hosoital in Davao City shall deny a woman of reprductive
heafth seruices.
In case of emergenu, a social worker or anv authorized perconnel shall be
designated to conduct raoid appraisal of the socio-economic status of the &ttient
for admission purooss. Non-mmpliance of the Administator of this prouision shall
be penalized by a fine of not more than P5,000.00.
ARTICLE V
Socio-Economic Benefits for Women
SECTION 1, SOCIATIZED LENDING FORWOMEN.
a) All banks, financial/lending institutions and
cooperatives shall open special windows for lending
to women including young women who lack access
to traditional sources of collateral.
b) No woman shall be deprived of credit. Money lending
institutions shall establish a "socialized lending
scheme friendly to women" which shall constitute the
following:
1. Bank rate interest;
2. No post-dated checks; and
3. Ceftificate of Income Generating
Activity from BarangayCaptain.
7"

Ord. No. 0333-20
Non-compliance of this provision sh6l! be subjected to a fine of not less than
P3,000.00 and suspension of business permit or its equivalent.
ARTICLE VI
Rural Women's Rights
SECTION I.
PROMOTION OF ENVIRONMENT-FRIENDLY
TECHNOLOGIES. No Local Government agency or its representative shall act as
agent of inorganic fertilizers, herbicides, and pesticides. An administrative sanction
shall be imposed to head of agencies upon violation of this provision.
ARTICTE VII
Special Sectoral Concerns
SECTIOil 1. BARANGAY.LEVEL SANCTION ON CASES OF SEXUAL
HARASSMENT COMMITTED AGAINST WOMEil WITH DISABILITY. AII
barangays in Davao City shall formulate a barangay-level sanction on cases of
sexual harassment committed against women with disability. Failure to comply
with this provision shall subject the barangay council to an administrative
sanction.
ARTICLE VIII
Women and Childrcn
SECTIOil 1. SUPPORT TO WOMEN AND CHIIDREN, All agreements or
settlements arrived at the barangay level relative to the suppoft of the children
shall be final and executory. Violation of such agreements or settlements shall be
subjected to a fine of P5,000.00 and an imprisonment of one year.
ARTICLE IX
Gender and Development
SECTION 1. GEilDER SENSITIVITY ORIENTATION AND
TRAINIilG. This shall be conducted in al! schools and offices. Establishments
or companies, departments and agencies including barangay officials of the
Local Government of Davao City shall initiate gender sensitivity orientation and
training which shall equip them with theoretical knowledge on gender justice.
Non<ompliance of this provision shall require the concerned pafty to pay a fine
of P5,000.00 and issuance of warning by the Integrated Gender and
Development Office.
Likewise all establishments, schools, colleges and universities shall develop
assessment tool for gender biases.
CHAPTER II
Provisions for Implementation
SECTION 1. Creation of the Integrated Gender and Development
Office. The Integrated Gender and Development Office of Davao City shall be
created through a separate Ordinance within five (5) years from the approval of
this Ordinance, specifically to realize the provisions of this Ordinance.
\

Page 42of 45
Ord. No. 0333-20
It shall be the coordinative, reg)latory and monitoring body of the Local
Government of Davao City to focus on gender-sensitive projects and activities. It
shall become the local hrt distinct expression of the PhilipBine Commission on
Women (PCWI.
SECTIO]I 2. MIilIMUM FUNCTIONS OF THE INTEGRATED GENDER
AND DHVETOPMENT OFFICE. In relation to the preceding SECTION, IGDO shatl
have the following functions, at the minimum, to ensure consistency in the
implementation of the provisions of this Ordinance:
a. Monitoring and coordinative Functions. These functions shall
see through the realistic, measurable and tangible results of the
implementation of the provisions of this Ordinance:
. Gender Sensitive Watch. A system of seMces and facilities
in order to monitor status of women in the City of Davao
wherein all departments and agencies of Davao City shall
develop conceptual and practical methodologies for
incorporating gender perspectives into all aspects of
economy and policy-making. It shall collect gender and age
disaggregated data on poverty situation and all aspects of
economic activity and develop qualitative and quantitative
statistical pefformance from a gender perspective. It shall
also serue as the data bank of Davao City on gender and
development.
. Legal Aid Seruices Check Coordinated seruices for any
legal actions needed by the women in protecting their rights
shall be installed.
. Advocacy and Campaign ManagemenL A coordinated
advocacy and campaign on all forms of discrimination and
violence against women shall be programmed.
. SustainableandGenderSensitivePrcjectDevelopment.A
systemofappraisalsofr rojecttodeterminesustai nableimpacton
womenandmen, localeconomy, politics,cultureandecosystem.
. Violence in Media Check. An active dialogue with tri-media
representatives shall be undeftaken by the SANGGUNIANG
Panlungsod Committee on Women's Welfare and
Development GOs and NGOs on incidence of all forms of
violence in media.
b. Regulatory Function. This function shall include establishing
protocols and standards relevant to the bllowing concerns:
Education and Training Benchmark. Gendersensitivity education and training for all
departments and agencies of the Local
Government of Davao City and at the barangay
level shall be designed.
a

Page 43of 45
Ord. No. 0333-20
Standards for contents of the course shall be
established by the Office.
Psychosocial Support Program. A holistic and
indigenous approach to women with social
dysfunctioning which includes attendance to their
physical/biological, emotional, psychological and
social needs shall be setup. Indicators of program
success shall be established by the Office.
Early Childhood Care and Development
Program and Seruices. Appropriate support
services for women and chlldren shall include
nu
nd day care
services for infants and toddlers as prescribed in
RA6972 and the Davao City Children's Welfare
Code. Indicators of quality of seruices shall be
established by the Office.
It shall be involved in all the processes related to the
conceptualization, development, assessment and
evaluation of programs and projects of the Local
Government of Davao City.
SECTION 3. ROLE OF THE BARANGAY COUNCIL OF WOMEN OF
DAVAO CITY. The Davao City Ba ra ngay Council of Women shall become the
consultative-assembly of the Integrated Gender and Development Office for its
periodic planning and programming, programs implementation, monitoring,
asseasment and evaluation.
The federation of all BCWs from the different barangays shall hold its Annual
Women's Summit every March of every year. Such summit shall be the avenue
for the women of Davao city to discuss, promote, recommend poticies,
programs, projects for gender and development. The same shall be the avenue
where women will elect their Sectoral Representative to the City Council every
election year.
sEcrroN 4, RULES AND REGULATTONS. Through an Executive
Order, an Executive Committee composed of the City Prosecutor's Office, City
Lega! Office, City Social Welfare and Development Office and the Committee on
Women, Children and Family Relations of the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod shall
promulgate the rules and regulations necessary to carry on the provisions of
this Ordinance.
A consultative body shall be convened periodically throughout the formulation
of the Implementing Rules and Regulations which shall be composed of official
representatives of the various agencies of the Local Government and Women
NGOs involved in the process of drafting of this Code.
a
a
!

Page 44.of 45
Ord. No. 0333-20
A Technical Working Group shall be formed for an effective and efficient
realization of the Implementing Rules and Regulations.
Such rules and regulations shal! take effect upon its publication in local
newspapers of general circulation in the City of Davao.
SECTION 5. APPROPRIATIONS. For the effective implementation of this
Ordinance, the Local Government of Davao City shall allocate the amount
appropriated from official development assistance as stipulated in RA7192 and RA
97t0. It shall also aopropriate six percent (5olo) from its Total Annual Budoet to
reoresent Davao Cityt Annual GAD Budget from which the implementation of this
Ordinance shall be charoed.
CHAPTER III
FINAL PROVISIONS
SECTION 1. SEPARABILITY CLAUSE -If for any reason, any SECTION
or provision of this Ordinance is declared unconstitutional or invalid, the other
sections or provisions hereof which are not affected hereby shall continue to be
in ful lforce and effiect.
SECTION 2. REPEALING CLAUSE - All Ordinances, local issuances or
rules in consistent with the provisions of this Ordinance are hereby repealed or
modified accordingly.
SECTION 3. EFFECTIUTIY-Th|s Ordinance shall take effect upon
approval and after publication in the newspaper of general circulation in the City
of Davao.
ENACTED, on the 25thday of August 2020, by a unanimous vote of all the
Members of the Sanggunian, there being a quorum.
CERTIFIED CORRECT:
cngfurdr,)'il6'
Secretary to the SangguniangPanlungsod
(City Government Department Head I[.
ATTESTED:
EDGAR
JR.
President Pro
empore
Temporary Presiding Officer
cns/kjtq

J
Page 45 of 4S
Ord. No. 0333-20
APPROVED:
2 B Z0Zl
2020
,v
Z. DUTERTE
ciV Mavy
ATTESTED:
LOPEZ
City
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING ORDINANCE NO. 5004, SERTES OF 1997, OTHERWISE KNOWN AS THE
"WOMEN DEVELOPMENTCODETO STRENGTHEN STRUCTURESAND MECHANISMSIN ADDRESSINGTHE
EVOLVING CONCERNS OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN

I
(
I
a
Page 45 of 4S
Ord. No. 0333-20
APPROVED:
0 2021
2020
Z. DUTERTE
? City M"yoh
ATTESTED:
LOPEZ
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING ORDINANCE NO. 5004, SERIES OF 1997, OTHERWISE KNOWN AS THE
.WOMEN DEVELOPMENT CODE TO STRENGTHEN STRUCTURES AND MECHANISMS IN ADDRESSING THE
EVOLVING CONCERNS OF WOMEN AND CHILDREN
I
City
?
I