RepuOticof thb Philippines
OFFICE OF THE CITY MAYOR
tl Nc
RE: ORDINANCE NO. 0229-20, SERIES OF 2020 ENTITLED 'AN ORDINANCE
IMPOSING PENALTIES TO ESTABLISHMENTS WITH BUSINESS PERMITS BUT
NO TOURISM LICENSES, AS THOSE WITH LATE RENEWALS AND
ESTABLISHMENTS THAT ARE OPERATiNG WITHOUT BUSINESS PERM
AND TOURISM LICENSES."
VETO MESSAGE
July 16, 2020
Respectfully returned to the SANGGUNIANG Panlugsod, through the Office
the City Administrator, both this City, the subject Ordinance No. 0229-20 SERIES
2020, with the informatlon that same is being vetoed'
of
The subject ordinance imposes administrative fines against person, natural or
juridical, who shall keep, manage or operate any building, edifice or premise, or a
tompletely independent part thereof, for the purpose of engaging in the tourism
business without having first secured a permit from the Business Permit and
Licensing Office to operate the same, and a Certificate of Accreditation of the
establishment from the Tourism and Promotion Department as mentioned in SECTION
L and 4 of the subject ordinance.
One of the gravamen of the punishable act is that the offender is doing
"tourism business". However, there ls nothing in the ordinance that defines what
constitute "tourism business", leaving the implementor in limbo.
The said defect cannot be cured in the implementing guidelines to be issued
by the executive department. Lest, it will be unduly exercising the power of the
legislative department.
It has been said that a statute or act suffers from the defect of vagueness
when it lacks comprehensible standards that men of common intelligence must
necessarily guess at its meaning and differ as to its application. It is repugnant to
the Constitution in two (2) respects: (1) it violates due process for failure to accord
persons, especially the parties targeted by it, fair notice of the conduct to avoid; and
(Z) it leaves law enforcers unbrldled discretion in carrying out its provisions and
becomes an arbitrary flexing of the Government muscle' (G'R. No' 225447,
SAMAHAN NG MGA PROGRESIBONG KABATAAN (SPARK),X JOANNE ROSE SACE
LIM, JOHN ARVIN NAVARRO BUENAGUA, RONEL BACCUTAN, MARK LEO DELOS
REYES, and CLARISSA JOYCE VILLEGAS, minor, for herself and as represented by
her father, IULIAN VILLEGAS,JR., Petitioners, vs. QUEZON CITY, as represented by
MAYOR HERBERT BAUTISTA, CIry OF MANILA, as represented by MAYOR JOSEPH
ESTRADA, and NAVOTAS CITY, as represented by MAYOR JOHN REY TIANGCO,
Respondents. )
Hence, this VETO.
Finally, let copies of this VETO MESSAGE be furnished all members of the
(082) 224-3004 o (082) 241-1000 loc. 265 . davaocitymayor@gmail.com
August Body for information and guidance
Second Floor, City Hall
Hall Drive, San Ped
St., Davao City
Bffi@
LIFE I8 HERE
j-
'r.;"
'
DUTERTE
€City Ma
-Ot.-a-oei
r
ng'
RELEASED
I
I
t,

'
. Republlc of the Philippines
OFFICE OF THE CITY LEGAT
Tel. No. 298-6970
Trunk Line No. 241-10@ Lx,267*225*230
Ref. No. CLO-2020-001851
w
-. jr rcE *ilff ,ifl ml[tETnArm
0ruA0 cr,'
Legal Opinion No
SERIES of 2020
RE: ORDINANCE NO, 0229-20, SERIES OF 2020 ENTITLED ,'AN
ORDINANCE IMPOSING PENALTIES TO ESTABLISHMENTS WITH
BUSINESS PERMITS BUT NO TOURISM LICENSES, AS THOSE WITH LATE
RENEWALS AND ESTABLISHMENTS THAT ARE OPERATING WITHOUT
BUSINESS PERMIT AND TOURISM LICENSES."
1't INDoRsEMENT
)uly 16,2020
RrrgvED Br
'-,.1IE:
Respectfully forwarded to the Offi ce of the City Mayor, through the Office
of the City Administrator, both this City, the subject Ordinance No. 0229-20
SERIES of 2020, informing your end that the same is vague as discussed
hereunder.
The subject ordinance imposes administrative fines against person,
natural or juridical, who shall keep, manage or operate any building, edifice or
premise, or a completely independent part thereof, for the purpose of engaging
in the tourism business without having first secured a permit from the Business
Permit and Licensing Office to operate the same, and a CerLificate of
Accreditation of the establishment from the Tourism and Promotion Department
as mentioned in SECTION 1 and 4 of the subject ordinance.
One of the gravamen of the punishable act is that the offender is doing
"tourism business". However, there is nothing in the ordinance that defines what
constitute "tourism business", leaving the implementor in limbo.
The said defect cannot be cured in the implementing guidelines to be
issued by the executive department. Lest, it will be unduly exercising the power
of the legislative department.
It has been said that a stati-rte or act sui=fers frorn the defect of vagueness
when it lacks comprehensible standards that men of common intelligence must
necessarily guess at its meaning and differ as to its application. It is repugnant to
the Constitution in two (2) respects: (1) it violates due process for failure to
accord persons, especially the parties targeted by it, fair notice of the conduct to
avoid; and (2) it leaves law enforcers unbridled discretion in carrying out its
provisions and becomes an arbitrary flexing of the Government muscle. iC.n. rrro.
225442, SAMAHAN NG MGA PROGRESIBONG KABATAAN (SPARK),X .]OANNE
ROSE SACE LIM, JOHN ARVIN NAVARRO BUENAAGUA, RONEL BACCUTAN, MARK
LEO DELOS REYES, and CLARISSA IOYCE VILLEGAS, minor, for herself and as
represented by her father, JULIAN VILLEGAS, JR., petitioners,
vS. QUEZON CIry, aS TepTesented by MAYoR HERBERT BAUTISTA, CITY oF
MANILA, as represented by MAyoR JosEpH ESTRADA, and NAVOTAS CITy, as
represented by MAYOR IOHN REy TIANGCO, Respondents.)
'tD
1s{-})
t
(-.Il)
ED

L
Hence, this office recommends
VETO of
subject ordinance.
ATTY. M
A. GALLO, RSW
Acting Asst. City Legal Officer
Approved by:
ATTY. OSMUN
P. VILLANUEVA, JR.
OIC-Acting City Legal Officer
Date of Approval: July 76,2020
r n{U ),.t. ) t t.-pt n o [t r.\ t n u i.t m - fi c u t.tt s _ 2 0 ) 0- O0 t 3 t I ;- I 6. ) 0
(tt) Jlt
GAI
O

luly 2, 202i)
f1
,Ub
STRT L DUTERTE
City MaYtr
City of Damo
(
JUL O S ?T?O
4,,4rb
t*larlan
'-', - '/ (M.Lo?\-N|NI f.qg
Pnrsuffit to sub+stion 3, kragraph c, setion i+69, Atide frie' Tifle Hre'
chagter 3, Book Itr ard Sertion 54 Efiok I of Renrhlic Act lrlo' 7160, otrerwise known
x the Lual f*verRment Code of 1981, t\rg ffe furnishing You a copry of Rsdution No'
010+2-2It xrd fr,lirnnce [*lo. o22}2tt, hoft Seri$ of 2020 of the Sangr]uniang
Panlungsol,forYurrinformation,guidarr-eardaS'ro;riaterlion.
Very hutY }tUE,
b'
CORRESPONDENCE & RECORDS DIVISION
RECEIVED
JUL 00 2020
ffii
MARY
I ,q0
AIDE
CONTACT
cMo
toc.
c+fffifu\*$u-r*
StrrEtarY to tte SangguniarE PmlurEsod
-iairy-Gfo.mment Departnent Head tr)
I

\-t
2nd rndorsement
July 22,2020
Respectfully forwarded to COUNCILOR MYRNA G.t. 'DALODO-ORTIZ
Proponent of Ordinance No. 0229-20, SERIES of 2020, SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod, this
City, the herein attached VETO MESSAGE of the HONORABLE SARA Z. DUTERTE,
City Mayor relative to the said Ordinance No, 0229-20, SERIES of 2020, for information.
Thank you.
n Ann/q,l^ h
CHARITO N. SANTOStrtr*,
Secretary to the SANGGUNIANG Pa
(City Government Department Head II)
ffiffii#ffiEVED
T EELHA!.
D
I
DALODO-OR]'lZ
MYRNA
HON.
OFFiCE OF
PANLUNGSOD
$ANGGLlNlAl.iG
DATE:
BY:

tgth City Council
8th Regular Session
SERIES of 2020
PRESENT
ABSENT:
Vice Mayor SebastianZ. Duterte
Maria Belen S. Acosta
Bai Hundra Cassandra Dominique N. Advincula
Danilo C. Dayanghirang
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Edgar P. Ibuyan Jr.
Ralph O. Abella
Nilo D. Abellera
Wilbefto E. Al-ag
Dante L. Apostol Sr.
Conrado C. Baluran
Jessica M. Bonguyan
Louie John J. Bonguyan
Pilar C. Braga
Augusto Javier G. Campos III
Jonard C. Dayap
Edgar R. Ibuyan Sr.
Richlyn N, Justol-Baguilod
Pamela A. Librado-Morata
Diosdado Angelo Junior R. Mahipus
Jaffar U. Marohomsalic
Bonifacio E. Militar
Myrna G. L'Dalodo-Oftiz
Antoinette G. Principe-Castrodes
J. Melchor B. Quitain Jr.
Albefto T. Ungab
Mary Joselle D. Villafuefte
Jesus Joseph P. Zozobrado III
- Temporary Presiding Officer
- OB- Attended the First Quafter
Regular Meeting of the Peace
and Order Council
- On Official Business
- On Official Business
- On Domestic Emergency Leave
ORDINANCE NO. O229-2O
SERIES oJ 2O2O
AN ORDINANCE IMPOSING PENALTIES TO ESTABLISHMENTS
WITH BUSINESS PERMITS BUT NO TOURISM LICENSES, AS
THOSE WITH LATE RENEWALS AND ESTABLISHMENTS THAT
ARE OPERATING WITHOUT BUSINESS PERMIT AND
TOURISM LICENSES

Ord. No. 0229-20
Be it ordained by the Honorable SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod of Davao City, in
session assembled, that:
SECTION 1. ACCREDITATION OF TOURISM ORIENTED/RELATED
ESTABLSIHMENTS- No person, natural or juridical, shall keep, manage or operate any
building, edifice or premise, or a completely independent paft thereof , for the purpose
of engaging in the tourism business without having first secured a permit from the
Business Permit and Licensing Office to operate the same, and a Certificate of
Accreditation of the establishment from the Tourism and Promotion Depaftment (TpD).
SECTION 2. DISPLAY OF CERTIFICATE OF ACCREDITATION The
Ceftificate of Accreditation shall always be displayed in a conspicuous place of the
establishment, otherwise, it shall be presumed that no license or accreditation was
issued to such establishment.
SECTION 3.
NON.TRANS
RABILITY OF CER.TIFICATE OF
ACCREDITATION - The accreditation shall be non-transferabre.
SECTION 4. PENALTIES - In case the management of any tourism-related
establishment fails to obtain such license required under this Ordinance, the City shall
impose the following administrative fines:
1. For establishments with Business Permits but without Tourism Licenses, a fine
of One Thousand Pesos (P1,000.00) per month shall be imposed;
2. For establishments with Late Tourism Licenses, a fine of One Thousand Pesos
(P1,000.00) per month shall also be imposed; and
3. For establishments operating without Business Permits and Tourism Licenses,
a fine of Two Thousand Pesos (P2,000.00) per month shail be imposed.
In addition to the abovementioned, the City Mayor may suspend or revoke the
licenses of the erring persons, corporations or establishments that violate this Ordinance.
SECTION 5. IMPLEMENTING RULES - The City Mayor, from time to time,
may issue rules and regulations as he/she may deem flt and necessary for the effective
implementation of this Ordinance.
SECTION 6. FUNDING - The funds necessary for the implementation of this
Ordinance shall be taken from the devolved funds for tourism regulation, promotion and
development. Succeeding funding requirements shall be provided for in the Annual
Budget of the City Government.
SECTION 7. SEPARABILITY CLAUSE - The provisions of these Rules are
hereby declared separable, and in the event that anyone or more of such provisions are
declared invalid, the validity of all other provisions shall not be affected thereby.
SECTION 8. REPEALING CLAUSE - All existing Rules and Regulation Circulars
issued by the Department of Tourism on the operations of tourism-related
establishments subject of these Rules as well as local ordinances which are inconsistent
with the provisions of these Rules and Regulations are hereby repealed and superseded
accordingly.

Ord. No. 0229-20
SECTION 9. EFFECTIVITY - This Ordinance shall take effect 15 days upon
approval, posting and publication in a newspaper of local circulation in the City of Davao.
ENACTED, on the 20th day of February 2020, by a unanimous vote of all the
Members of the Sanggunian, there being a quorum.
CERTIFIED CORRECT:
cnWNb-*6'
Secretary to the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod
(City Government Depaftment Head tI) lV
ATTESTED:
EDGAR P. I
President Pro Tempore
Temporary Presidi ng Officer
cnsi kjtq
APPROVED
2A20
qcffi"ff"{}ffiffiJ
SARA Z. DUTERTE
City Mayor
ATTESTED:
ATTY. ZULEIKA T. LOPEZ
City Administrator
AN ORDINANCE IMPOSING PENALTIES TO ESTABLISHMENTS WITH BUSINESS PERMITS BUT NO TOURISM LICENSES, AS
THOSE WITH LATE RENEWALS AND ESTABLISHMENTS THAT ARE OPERATING WITHOUT BUSINESS PERMIT AND
TOURISM LICENSES

POLE USAGE AGREEMENT
THIS AGREEMENT, made and entered into by and among:
DAVAO LIGET & POWER CO. (DLPC for brevity), a corporation duly organized and existing
in accordance with the laws of the Philippines, with principal offrce at Aboitiz Corporate Center,
Gov. Manuel A. Cuenco Ave., Cebu City, represented in this deed by its President and Chief
Operating Ofiicer, RODGER S. Vf,LASCO;
-andThe CITY GOVERNMENT OF DAVAO (CITY for brevity), with office address at City Hall
Drive, San Pedro, Davao City, represented by its City Mayoq HON. SARA Z. DUTERTE.
W I T N E S S E T H:
WHEREAS, CITY is duly authorized by the National Telecommunications Commission to operate, maintain and
provide an Information Technology Infrastructure Network Services in Davao City and otler areas within the
franchise, where DLPC has existing poles;
WHEREAS, C[TY, through its Public Safety and Security Command Center, desires to use the existing poles of
DLPC for the CfTY's city-wide CCTV Surveillance System to enhance safety and security of Davao City;
WHEREAS, DLPC is willing to allow the CITY to attach its CCTV Surveillance System on certain specified poles
of DLPC under terms and conditions herein below stipulated;
NOW, TIDREFORE, for and in consideration of the foregoing premises, the parties have agreed as follows:
1.
DURATION - This Agreement shall be effective and binding as of January l, 2Ol9 to December 31,
2023.
It is understood, however, that either party may terminate this Agreement upon six (6) months advance
notice to the other of the intended date of termination, in which case this Contract shall be considered
terminated at the end of the six (6) months notice, irrespective of cause;
2.
COVERAGf, - Except as otherwise provided thereiq this Agreement shall cover poles of DLPC per
Annex ",{' and those which may be installed in the future in the City of Davao with prior approval from
DLPC. The attachments must be made only within the space allotted to CITY and in such manner as
would not deprive or affect the use by DLPC of its poles nor deprive the other joint pole users of the
effective use ofthe spaces allotted to them under separate contracts;
It is further understood that attachments, Iines, cables. Fiber Optics, CCTV Surveillance Systems and
Facilities of CITY once connected. installed or attached to the poles of DLPC shall stand as security to
answer for all rentals, feeVcharges on the electrical consumption of CCTV Surveillance System and
attached Facilities, and damages that CITY may be liable to DLPC under this Agreement.
3.
RENTAL - Until subsequently revised pursuant to this Agreement, CITY shall pay DLPC a rental rate of
ONE & 00/100 (P1.00) PESO per month.
The total payment shall be ONE & 00/100 (Pl.00) PESO per month for the poles with CITY attachments as
ofDecember 3l ofthe current year. [t is hereby agreed and understood that the rental charges shall be
reviewed and/or adjusted every year to align it to the cost of owning the poles.
CITY undertakes to pay the rental amount under tle following procedures:
(a)
The aforesaid monthly rentals shall be paid by CITY to DLPC;
(b)
The monthly bill of DLPC to CITY shall bear the signatures of the authorized representatives of
DLPC;
(c)
CITY shall pay the monthly bill within TEN (10) days from receipt thereof Pole Rentals not paid
on the said period shall incur a surcharge equivalent to THREE &.251100 (3.25%) PERCENT per
month until the said account is fully paid;
(d)
In case CITY ceases to operate in the area covered by this agreement, serviced by its cables and
attachments, and it is already in arrears in its rental payments even for one (1) monttr, DLPC upon
prior written notice to CITY or posting of such notice at CITY's usual billing address and after
the lapse of fifteen (15) days from such notice or posting with the arrears remaining unpaid - shall
have the right to disconnect CITY's attachementVinstallations. material and/or equipment attached
to the poles.
(e)
Failure to pay three (3) monthly pole rentals shall constitute grounds for the termination of this
Contract, effective upon notice tlereof received by CITY or posting of such notice of termination
by DLPC at CITY's usual billing address.
4.
ELECTRIC CONSUMPTION OF CITY's CCTV SURYEILLANCE SYSTEM AND ATTACHED
FACILITIES
4A
Fee/Charges - For and in consideration of the electric consumption of CITY's CCTV
( ly|.fuweillance System and facilities, the CITY shall pay DLPC a monthly fee,/charges in accordance
\ t' with the approved rate schedule under flat lighting (unmetered) and as determi.t"a UV """"Y
I
r)l-**t-t

Regulatory Commission from time to time, and other charges that DLPC may be required to
impose by law or by any rule or regulation issued by the Energy Regulatory Commission or other
relevant government agency.
4.2
Billing - DLPC shall submit to CITY a regular billing setting forth fee./charges payable for each
calendar month on or before the 106 day ofthe succeeding calendar month after the reading date.
Such billing shall, in absence of manifest error, be conclusive as the amount of the fee/charges
due. The CITY shall, within ten (10) days from receipt of the billing, remit payment of such
fee./charges to DLPC.
4.3
Penalties; Disconnection and Termination - If CITY fails to pay the Fee/Charges and/or other
amounts payable under this SECTION in full, on the due date, it shall pay a penalty of two percent
(2%) per month (a fraction of a month to be considered one month) based on the total amount due,
from the date when such payment is due until the date such amount is received in full by DLPC.
In addition to the penalty, DLPC shall have the right to (i) to immediately terminate this Pole
Usage Agreement; (ii) to declare all Fee/Charges and other fees for the current billing period and
such other unbilled periods, as due and payable, whereupon CITY shall pay such Fee/Charges
immediately upon delivery by DLPC of corresponding billing to CITY; and/or (iii) to disconnect
CITY within forty-eight (48) hours after service of notice of disconnection to CITY.
4.4
The CITY hereby warrants that it has provided funds for the payment of the monthly electric
consumption of its CCTV Surveillance Systems and facilities. The CITY hereby agrees to execute
and deliver all such further instruments, and to do and perform all such other acts, necessary to
carry out any agreement, term, condition, warranty or assurance in this Agreement as such shall be
necessary to carry out the provisions of this Agreement and/or whenever a request for such
instruments shall be made.
PROCEDURE - Each specific instance of contemplated joint use shall be considered separately. Joint use
shall be established in each case when it is mutually desirable and when it appears to be consistent with
best engineering practice. Whenever CITY desires to establish an attachment and/or occupancy, it shall
notify DLPC in writing by way of an application, indicating therein the following:
a.
Scope of Works;
b.
Schedule of Works, indicating the date of start and completion of project, the duration and the
time of work;
c.
Name of CITY employees, agents, workers and,/or its contractors and their workerq and their
work shifts;
d.
Location and/or coverage area;
e.
Pole Numbers, and,
f.
Character of Attachment and Attachment Data.
The said application shall be subject to approval of DLPC. A Notice to Proceed shall be issued by DLPC to
CITY when the said application is completed by the CITY and approved by DLPC. Further, actual works,
attachments and/or installations shall only be made by the CITY in the presence and supervision of DLPC
or its authorized representatives;
Furthermore, the CITY shall be solely responsible for its CCTV Surveillance Systems, facilities and
attachments. The CITY shall render DLPC free and harmless from any liability, indemnity or damages
thereto;
5.1
CITY shall report all attachments actually made on DLPC poles, as well as all attachments
removed therefrom on a monthly basis. Failure to notifr DLPC of any attachments made by CITY
unless detrimental to the facilities of DLPC, or third parties, in which case DLPC can order its
removal and shall subject the said attachments to a surcharge equivalent to 3OOyo of the pole
rental.
5.2
In installing attachments to the poles of DLPC, the CITY shall adhere to the construction
standards specified in Annex "B" hereof;
5.3
CITY's installationVattachments shall be limited to only one Information Technology
Infrastructure Nawork Services, Telecommunication and its Value-Added Services, as defined by
the National Telecommunications Commission (NTC), on any pole route and shall be in
accordance with the approved standards mentioned in Annex "A" hereof. Violation by CITY of
this limitation shall be a ground for termination of this Contract;
In case of substandard installations or attachments by CITY, DLPC shall notify CITY of such
fact and if CITY still fails to remove the same or take corrective measures within ten (10) days
from receipt of DLPC's notice, DLPC has the right to do the corrective measures, and CITY shall
pay a penalty of200Vo on top ofthe regular pole rental rate for every attachment removed or
5.4

6.
CONSTRUCTION STANDARD - All the specifications in the illustrations and drawings attached hereto
and made a part hereof as Annex "B", shall be adhered to by CITY. All the applicable national and
city/municipal regulations on the use of poles shall be complied by the Parties of this Agreement.
6. I
In order that the wires of either party may be made easily accessible to its linemeq a clearance of
at least thirty (30) inches, in the vertical, horizontal or diagonal position between the lines of
wires, shall be provided forthe safety ofthe personnel and properties ofboth parties;
6.2
Further, CITY shall be limited to only one attachment bracket and cable messenger per pole.
Future expansion attachments by CITY must strictly comply with the construction standards,
attached as Annex "8", and shall be subject to the provisions ofparagraph 3 hereof
6.3
Sufiicient guying shall be installed by CITY whenever required by their attachment, especially on
all line angle runs and dead-ends, considering all attachments so as to prevent DLPC's pole from
leaning/falling. CITY shall not attach its guy to the existing guys of DLPC and shall provide
independent anchor ties to support its attachments;
6.4
Each party shall install guy insulator of adequate design on its guy wires whenever such guy wires
have any contact, direct or indirect, with jointly owned or solely owned poles of DLPC;
6.5
Whenever DLPC have to reset or replumb any pole due to CITY's failure to install suffrcient
guying, the cost of such work shall be for the account of CITY. Such work shall be done in order
to conform with the guying requirements, and any damage to the facilities of the parties hereto,
resulting from such work, although aggravated by such natural calamities such as typhoon, etc.,
including damage to public and/or private properties shall be for the sole account of CITY;
CLEARANCE AIID SPACING - In all jointly used poles, the following clearances and spacing (as
indicated in the attached Pole Specification Drawings) shall be observed;
7.1
The space allotment for DLPC will be the uppermost part of the pole and will be as follows:
a.
Formainroadsandhighwaysusing35 feetpoles: 24feetandabove;
b.
For side roads, feeder roads, subdivision roads, and the like using 25 feet poles: 2l feet
and above,
7.2
CITY's cables, line wires and accessories shall be installed on the field side of the pole,
maintaining a clearance of twenty four (24) inches but in no case less than twelve (12) inches from
the secondary line of DLPC. Install color-coding of cable facilities including bracket attached to
the pole for proper identification;
"1.3 CITY power supply unit for its telecommunication cabinet shall be installed on its own
pole./pedestal. Should CITY's own pole./pedestal falls on public roads or sidewalks, CITY must
have an Approved Pole Location (APL) from the appropriate government entity. If falling on
private lots (owned by a third party), correspondingly CITY must have a grant of right-of-way
from the private lot owner;
7.4
CITY shall mount its termination/splicing box or enclosure, if any, only on its own
telecommunications cables but must be at least one (l) meter away measured horizontally from
DLPC's and PLDT's pole. The Distribution Panel or power supply box shall be installed or
mounted on pole of at least one (l) feet below, measured vertically from the existing lowest cable
attachment.
7.5
The full cost of relocation of the existing attachments of DLPC affected by CITY's requirement
shall be at the expense ofthe latter and in accordance with Paragraph 9 ofthis Agreement;
SAFETY REGULATIONS - Each parry shall install and maintain its own facilities on alljointly-used
poles in accordance with the following standards, approved safety regulations, and the applicable rules and
regulations issued by the municipal or city and national government and those jointly set by DLPC and
Pole Users,
8.1
Each party shall install and maintain its own grounding system at all required locations on jointlyused poles in accordance with the approved practices;
8.2
Where strand mounted equipment is involved, expansion loops and drip loops may have less
vertical clearance from telephone conductors, but not less than three (3) inches;
8.3
CITY shall see to it that all its equipment, wires and cables shall be installed outside the thirty
(30) square inch climbing space and all exposed metal parts shall be effectively grounded or
suitably covered and protected from accidental contacts;
8.4
CITY personnel including its contractors and/or agents who will conduct or perform installation
works and maintenance to its facilities attached to DLPC poles, shall at all times observe and
practice generally accepted safety standards and regulations, such as but not limited to the use of
Personal Protective Equipment.
CITY must provide Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) to each of its employee, worker and/or
contractor required to use the PPE, and each failure to provide PPE to an employee, worker
may be considered a soparate violation of this Agrcement
J

l0
Further, prior to the actual conduct or performance of the installation works and maintenance,
CITY personnel, its contractors and./or agents shall first undergo safety orientation to be
conducted by DLPC's Safety and Training Department, who will issue the necessary clearance
and authority to proceed. The actual performance of installation works and maintenance without
the said clearance and authority from DLPC shall be deemed unauthorized and a ground for
termination of this Agreement. Further damages or loss to property, death or injuries to person,
which may result from the unauthorized installation works and maintenance, shall be the exclusive
responsibility of CITY. The CITY shall defend and hold harmless the DLPC against any and all
liabilities arising thereto.
8.5
The prescribed CITY uniform shall be worn properly during the installation and/or attachment
works. The prescribed CITY ID Card shall be used and displayed conspicuously during working
hours or while doing installation and./or attachment works, in such a way that any customer or
person who comes in contact with CITY can identify that particular or anployee easily.
REPLACEMENT AND RELOCATION - Whenever it is necessary to replace or relocate a pole, DLPC
shall, before making such replacement or relocation, give at least seven (7) working days notice thereof in
writing to CITY, specifying in such notice the time of such proposed replacement or relocatiorq and CITY
shall, at the time so specified, transfer its attachments to the new pole at its own expense;
9.1
If the relocation is due to the requirements of or at the request of a third party which cannot be
charged the costs of relocation, such costs shall be shouldered by DLPC and the transfer of the
attachments shall be at the expense of the parfy owning the same,
9.2
If the relocation is for the benefit of a third party, relocation and all other appertaining expenses
incurred shall be for the account ofthe third party so requesting, and the collection from the third
party of the costs of transferring the attachments of DLPC and CITY shall be their respective
responsibilities;
9.3
In the event CITY fails to transfer its attachments to the relocated pole at the time specified in the
notice, DLPC shall remove the old pole and transfer CITY facilities to the new pole in the best
and safest manner with whatever facilities available to DLPC, and CITY shall assume and pay all
costs of the removal and re-installation of its facilities. Moreover, DLPC shall be free from any
liability that may arise from said transfer or relocatiorq and CITY shall be liable to any party who
shall suffer damage therefrom;
9.4
Should it become necessary for DLPC to perform any work in order to accommodate the lines of
CffY, CITY shall pay DLPC the full cost of such work before the work is undertaken;
9.5
In case it would be necessary to replace an existing pole with a higher pole in order to
accommodate the lines of CITY, the cost of replacing such pole with a different pole, including
the cost of transferring all attachments to the new pole, shall be for the account of CITY.
Ownership of the new pole shall be retained by the original owner;
However, in case of emergency or whenever necessary to urgently remove and/or replace an existing pole
and/or attachmentVfacilities made by the CITY due to safety, or to protect the interests of the parties of this
Agreement, or the safety and interest of a third party, DLPC shall immediately notify the CITY of the
emergency or urgent nature of tle removal and/or replacement and the CITY shall, within one (l) hour
from the time of notification, make emergency repair or removal of its attachments/facilities. For this
purpose, the CITY shall designate its authorized personneVrepresentatives to respond to such emergency
calls and/or notifications. In the event that CITY fails to respond and effect emergency repair or removal of
its attachments/facilities within one (l) hour from the time of notification, DLPC is authorized, as CITY
hereby authorizes DLPC, to secure the attachmentVfacilities of CITY for purposes of safety and
safekeeping.
LIABILITIES AND DAMAGES - The rights and liabilities of the parties hereto for damages for death or
injuries to any person or damage to their properties arising out of the joint use of the pole under this
Agreement, or due to the proximity of the wires and fixtures of the parties attached to the jointly used poles
under this Agreement shall be as follows:
l0.f
CITY hereby expressly agrees, undertakes and binds itself to hold and keep DLPC harmless at all
times from any and all claims, accounts, demands suits or actions, by whomsoever made, for
damages to property or injuries to persons directly or indirectly arising out o{, or by reason or on
occasion of, or through and/or by the installation, operation, maintenance, repairs or any work or
act performed by CITY, its employees, agents, contractors or representatives pertaining to the
information technology infrastructure network services of CITY, its successors or assigns
especially if such work is made on the poles owned by DLPC;
10.2 Where sub-paragraph l0.l is inapplicable, each party shall be liable for such death or injuries to
persons or loss or damage to property caused solely by its negligence or solely by its failure to
comply at anytime with the specifications herein provided for, or by any defect in or breakage of,
its wires, fixtures or connected apparatus, or any failure of same to function;
10.3 Subject to sub-paragraphs 10.1 and 10.2 above, the party held liable for such death or injuries to
f
persons, loss of or damage to properties will defend, indemni$ and hold harmless the other
(fi2eui"st such liabilitY;

l1
t2
10.4 Where sub-paragraphs l0.l and 10.2 are inapplicable, each party shall be liable for all damages for
such death of or injuries to its own employees or its own property that are caused by the
concurrent negligence ofthe parties hereto, or that are due to causes which cannot be traced to the
sole negligence of any of the parties hereto, but nevertheless is imputable to all of them;
Otherwise, each party shall be liable for one-half (l/2) of all imputable damages for such death of
or injuries to persons other than employees of either party and for one-half (ll2) of all such
damages and injuries to property not belonging to either party;
10.5 DLPC shall be held blameless and not in any manner responsible or liable for any death or injury
to person or damage to property that may be caused by or as a result of CITY's attachments.
Likewise, CITY shall be answerable for any damage to property, death or injuries to persons that
may be caused by the poles of DLPC which cannot be retired because of CITY's attachments
remaining intact and are not yet removed from such idle poles. CITY shall likewise be answerable
by any damage to property, death or injuries to persons that may be occasioned by any violation
by CITY of its warranties, representations or promises under the Pole Usage Agreement;
10.6 Where, on account of death or injuries of the character described in the preceding paragraphs,
either party hereto shall make any payments to injured employees or to their relatives or
representatives in conformity with the applicable provision of law creating a liability on the
employer to pay compensation for personal injury to an employee by accident arising out of and in
the course of the employment, whether based on negligence on the part of the employer or not,
such payment shall be construed to be damages within the terms of the preceding sub-paragraphs
and shall be paid by the party liable thereto to the employer who made the payment or
whomsoever is its subrogee, if the same is so provided by the rules herein stipulated;
lO.7 All claims for damages arising hereunder asserted against or affecting all parties hereto shall be
dealt with by the parties jointly, PROVIDED HOWEVER, that in a case where the claimant
desires to settle any such claim upon terms acceptable to one ofthe parties hereto but not to the
other, the party to which said terms are acceptable may, at its election, pay to the others its onehalf (112) share of the expense which such settlement would involve, and thereupon said other
party shall be bound to protect the party making such payment from all further liability and
expense on account of such claims;
l0.t
In the adjustment between the parties hereto of any claim for damages arising hereunder, the
liability assumed hereunder by the parties shall include, in addition to the amounts paid to the
claimant, all expenses incurred by the parties in connection therewith which shall comprise costs,
disbursements, and other proper charges and expenditures, but shall not include attorney's fees;
The preceding paragraphs to the contrary notwithstanding where DLPC executes such work adivities to
accommodate CITY or by reason of the latter's default as stated in paragraphs 3.1 (e), 5.1,5.4,6.4. 6.5,
9.3, 9.4, 9.5, and elsewhere in the Pole Usage Agreement, CITY shall assume all the risks of harm or
injury to its employees, the employees of DLPC or any third person including all risks of damage to
properties of CITY, DLPC, their employees or any third person. To this end, CITY shall render DLPC
free and harmless from any liability, indemnity or damages;
The terms of this SECTION are not intended to include damages on account of cutting or trimming of trees;
all such damage shall be borne by the parry doing the cutting and trimming;
MAINTENANCE - Each party shall maintain its own facilities. CTTY agrees not to bore holes or deface
in any manner the poles to be jointly used, and to use alley arm clamps for support of its fixtures and
appliances on such jointly-used poles;
Howeveq in cases of emergency and/or whenever safety and protection to a property deems it necessary,
CITY may perform maintenance works on its facilities beyond the installation standards set in Annex "B";
Provided that a written authority and/or approval is first secured from and given by DLPC. Absence of the
said written authority/approval from DLPC renders maintenance works unauthorized, and any and all
damages and liabilities, which may result therefrom shall be the exclusive responsibility of the CITY.
BREACH/EVf,NTS OF DEFAULT & PENALTIES _
l2.l
UNAUTHORIZED ATTACIIMENTS. Attachments by the CITY on DLPC poles not covered
by applications duly approved by DLPC are deemed unauthorized. Unauthorized attachments shall
be subject to a penalty equivalent to 30ff/o of the pole rental from the date of last inventory to the
date of discovery.
12.2 SUBSTANDARD INSTALLATION AND/OR ATTACHMENTS. Installations andlor
attachments that do not conform to the provisions of this Agreement and the Construction
Standards set forth in Annex "B" hereof are deemed substandard installation/attacllnents under
this Agreement and the same shall be subject to a penalty of 200o/o of the pole rental per
attachment/installation removed or corrected.
12.3 NON-PAYMENT OF POLE RENTALS. The failure of CITY to make any payments to DLPC
the terms and conditions of this Agreement shall be governed by Paragraph
foffi'l"ffi;Xff"
J

l3
t4
l5
l6
t7
12.4 NON-COMPLIANCE TO STANDARD SAFETY REGULATIONS. The failure of CITY to
observe and practice standard safety regulations and procedures set in this Agreement and those
generally required in the performance of installation and/or attachment works, DLPC may suspend
CITY's installation and/or attachment works. The suspension shall take effect upon receipt of the
written notice by CITY or to its authorized representative. Further, DLPC may, thirty (30)
calendar days prior written notice to CITY, terminate this Agreement provided that due diligence
cure the default/breach within the notice period at the full satisfaction and unqualified acceptance
by DLPC, then such notice shall be of no force and effect.
The termination of this Agreement shall not release CITY from any obligation or cause of action
accrued or liability incurred prior to the termination.
The provisions under Paragraph 12 shall not constitute the exclusive remedy of DLPC and shall
not limit the ability of DLPC to pursue any other remedy available pursuant to this Agreement or
to law.
NO WAMR; REMEDIES CUMULATM. No failure or delay on the part of the Parties in exercising
any right or remedy hereunder and no course ofdealing between them shall operate as waiver thereot nor
shall any single or partial exercise of any right or remedy hereunder preclude any other or further exercise
thereof or the exercise of any other right or ranedy hereunder or thereunder. The rights and remedies
herein expressly provided are cumulative and not exclusive of any rights or remedies which any of the
Parties would otherwise have.
INVENTORY - DLPC and CITY shall conduct a yearly inventory of the poles where attachment have
been made at a time and date mutually agreeable to the parties but in no case shall it made later than two
(2) months from the anniversary date of this Agreement. All attachments and facilities found during the
inventory to have been installed without notice to DLPC shall be considered as having been installed on the
day after the last inventory is made and shall be billed in accordance with paragraph 5 hereofl
RIGHT-OF-WAY - Neither parties to this Agreement warrants or assures the other of any right-of-way or
privilege or easement in the Public Highway or the Private Property of third parties;
NOTICES.
All notices, requests, consents and other documents ("Notices") required under this Agreement
shall be given/served either by personal delivery in writing, by email, through registered mail or
sent through reputable courier services return receipt requested, postage prepaid and properly
addressed.
Such Notices shall be deemed served or given:
a. On the date of actual delivery, if personally served at the address of the Party to whom the
Notice is given between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. on any Business Day;
b. If sent by facsimile, when such Notice is successfully transmitted during business hours.
However, if the Notice is not sent during business hours, such Notice shall be deemed served
at the next business hours it has been successfully;
c. On the date after the Notice is sent, if sent through a reputable courier service; and
d. Five (5) working days after mailing, if sent through registered mail.
Any Party may change its address for receipt ofNotices at any time by giving notice thereof to the
other Party. The duly authorized representative of that Party may sign any Notice given under this
Contract on behalf of any Party.
Either Party may change the manner by which Notice is to be given provided that the other Parry
was advised of such change in writing, duly received.
16.l All emergency notifications for the removal and/or replacement of pole and/or
attachmentVfacilities of the Parties shall be made to the authorized representative andlor
designated personnel ofthe Parties within one (l) hour.
Such notifications shall be deemed served or given if made through phone./cell phone call or
mobile text to the Parties authorized personnel/representative and/or designated personnel.
Any Party may change its authorized personneVrepresentative and/or designated personnel at any
time by giving notice thereof to the other Party.
PAYMENT OF TAXES - Each party to this Agreement shall pay the corresponding taxes levied upon its
own respective properties by the local or national governments:
DLPC USE OF CITY POLf,S - In case that DLPC shall need or require the use of CITY poles, CITY is
willing and agrees to allow DLPC to attach its cables and facilities on CITY owned poles. The terms and
conditions set forth in the POLE USAGE AGREEMENT shall govern in this case.
It is hereby agreed and understood that the performance ofan undertaking or the exercise ofany right by
ALPC pursuant to the terms and conditions of this Agreement shall be binding on the CITY and
\fUP
as their valid and effective act'
l8

GOVERNING LAW AND VENUE OF ACTIONS. This Agreement shall be governed by, interpreted in
accordance wittq the laws of the Philippines.
Further, in case of any dispute, controversy, or disagreement between the DLPC, CITY, its agents, and/or
contractors, arising from or in relation to this Agreement, the same shall be settled and/or litigated in the
proper courts of the City of Davao to the exclusion of all other courts.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have hereunto caused this instrument to be signed this
at Davao City Philippines.
DAVAO
& POWER CO.
CITY GOVERNMENT OF DAVAO
VELASCO
SARA
DUTERTE
Signed in
uroy
the piesence of:
and
ATTY. I
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
Republic of the Philippines)
) S.S.
I,a
Public
in the city named above to take acknowledgements, certify that on this
personally appeared the following persons who presented to me their respective
competent proof of identity:
Name:
RODGER S. VELASCO
Competent Proof of Identity
Philippine Passport No. EC4298667 issued on June l, 2015 (to expire on May
3l,2A2O issued by Department of Foreign Affairs Davao City.
Hon. SARA Z. DUTERTE
known to me and to me known as the persons who executed the foregoing deed together with their witnesses and
who acknowledged to me that the same are their free and voluntary act and deed as well as that of the Corporation
and Office they represent.
This instrument consisting of seven (7) pages including this page wherein this acknowledgment is written, refers to
the Pole Usage Agreement for the City's city-wide CCTV Surveillance System by and between the Davao Light &
Power Company and the City Government of Davao.
WITNESS MY HAND AND SEAL on the date and at the place first above-written.
Doc. No. nY
Page No.
lv
Book No. lt/,
SERIES of 2020.
a
P.
IUP No.
ROLL