Rd. No. Ctup.20ZH)1295
2Nd INDORSEMENT
June 3, 2020
Respectfully returned to lrls. Charib J{. Santoc, Secretary to the SANGGUNIANG
Panlungsod, trb City, *re herein Legal Oprnion No. 330, SERIES af 2020 dabd May 7,
2020 of Atty. Osmundo P. Villanueva Jr., Acting City Legal fficer, City Legal Office,
relative to the attached approved Ordinance No. 0256-20, SERIES of 2A20 entitled, 'AN
ORDINANCE INSMTUTING THE DAVAO CIN/ COVID.1g ENHANCED COMMUNITY
QUARANTINE POUOES", for your information and appropriate adion.
For the City Mayor:
ATTY. TRISTAil
Assistant
01?422' j
RH
-cMo-cnD bn -b
LEASED
JUN 0 4 NN to'.a Lq4LIFE IS HERE
A
Second Floor, City Hall Building, City Hall Drive, San Pedro St., Davao City
(082) 22J-3004 o (082) 241-1000 loc.265 o davaocitymayor@gmail.com,
\

D6^rrhliF af, iha Dlrilinninac
.
r t\-Pravrrv
vt tl rv r r rllllrlrrl rLr
Cfrice of the City Lega! Officer
^.r.
-a ALlty or uavzro
clo-2020-00106
May O7,2O2O
t't
t
rL t:7
Ref. No. CLO-2020
Legai Opinion No. 330, SERIES oi 2020
c
-otw
RE: ORDINANCE NO. 0256-20, SERIES OF 2020 entitled "AN ORDINANCE
INSTITUTING THE DAVAO CITY COVID.I9 ENHANCED COMMUNITY
Al
I t 6l
ll?:llF
FtAl
l^lF6tt
t{UI{rtAlI
I ltlE f rJLl\rlEa,
.
1"t TNDoRSEMENT
May 7,2020
Daonaaffirlhr
{anerarr.laz{
}n {ha
A#fi^^
n{{}ra
/-itrr
iiarrar
}hrnrrah
lh^
A#iaa
nf {ha
t\voyvvltutt,
rurrlqruuu
ru rrru
vtltvv
vl
taav vtLl
lttulvt,
rtttvuvtt
tttv
vraivu
vr rrru
City Administrator, both this City, the subject Ordinance No. 0256-20 SERIES of 2020,
with the observation that since the subject Ordinance has been enacted earlier than
the Omnibus Guidelines on the lmplementation of Community Quarantine in the
Philippines, there are several provisions in the former which may have been qualified
and crrnnlemcnfer{ hrr tho lattcr and fhere marr harre hecn mandatnnr nrnrriqinnc in
', r'-
the latter which is not included in the former. These minor flaws though will not affect
the validity of the ordinance.
ln view thereof, this office recommends the approval of the ordinance.
,6@d*!'s'Biif#r;r:rOSMUNDO P. VILLANUEVA JR.
Acting City Legal Officer
AttachmenUs
Sioned CLO-2020-00106 RES.01 1 15-20 ORD.0256-20.pdf

Republic of th. itritippines
April 28, 2020
)
-3
SARA Z. DUTERTE
City Mayor
Madam:
Pursuant to Sub-SECTION 3, Paragraph C, SECTION 469, Article One, Title Five,
Chapter 3, Book III and SECTION 54 Book I of Republic Act No. 7160, othenruise known
as the Local Government Code of 1991, we are furnishing you a copy of Resolution No.
01115-20 and Ordinance No. 0256-20, both SERIES of 2020 of the SANGGUNIANG
Panlungsod, for your information, guidance and appropriate action.
Very truly yours,
d,W*).fu6-,
Secretary to the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod
(City Government Department Head II)
R;CEIVETI
CMO: CRD
RP\I-)<.W -brco?la I&h

'
Republic of the'Pfrilippines
Councilor
Councilor
19th city Councit
14th Regular Session
SERIES of 2020
PRESENT:
Vice Mayor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
ABSENT:
Councilor Nilo D. Abellera
Councilor Edgar R. Ibuyan Sr.
Sebastian Z. Dutefte
- Presiding Officer
Ralph O. Abella
Maria Belen S. Acosta
Bai Hundra Cassandra Dominique N. Advincula
Wilbefto E. Al-ag
Dante L. Apostol Sr.
Conrado C. Baluran
Jessica M. Bonguyan
Louie John l. Bonguyan
Pilar C. Braga
Augusto Javier G. Campos III
Danilo C. Dayanghirang
Jonard C. Dayap
Edgar P. Ibuyan Jr.
Richlyn N. Justol-Baguilod
Pamela A. Librado-Morata
Diosdado Angelo Junior R. Mahipus
Myrna G. L'Dalodo-Ortiz
Antoinette G. Principe-Castrodes
l. Melchor B. Quitain Jr.
Alberto T. Ungab
Mary Joselle D. Villafuerte
Jesus Joseph P. Zozobrado III
Jaffar U. Marohomsalic
Bonifacio E. Militar
- Exempted pursuant to Executive
Order 23-8, SERIES of 2020
- Exempted pursuant to Executive
Order 23-8, SERIES of 2020
- On Sick Leave
- Exempted pursuant to Executive
Order 23-8, SERIES of 2020
ORDINANCE NO. 0256.20
SERIES ol 2O2O
AN ORDINANCE INSTITUTING THE DAVAO CITY COVID.l9
ENHANCED COMMUNTW QUARANTINE POLICIES
Lt
I

Ord. No. 0256-20
Be it ordained by the Honorable SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod of Davao city, in
session assembled, that:
SECTION 1. TITLE- This Ordinance shall be known as "AN ORDINANCE
INSTITUTING THE DAVAO CITY COVID.19 ENHANCED COMMUNITY
QUARANTINE POLTCIES-.
SECTION 2' COVERAGE - This ordinance shall be imposed upon all persons,
entities and establishments within the City of Davao, until the existing Enhanced
Community Quarantine is lifted, or unless any part therein is earlier modified,
withdrawn or extended.
SECTION 3' ENHANCED COMMUNITY OUARANTINE - The entire City of
Davao is placed under an Enhanceo community QGlantine which shall have the effect
of imposing the following rules:
1'
No person can come out from his/her residence, dwelling, and
immediate surroundings except those who will buy rooo or
medicine, go to the hospitar or in an emergency situation, and
except as herein provided;
2.
Imposing a social distancing measure of at least two (2) meters
between all persons in public areas;
3.
Face masks are mandatory when going out in pubric;
4.
Suspension of all mass gatherings, including those which are
religious, educational, or recreational in nature;
5. All government offices must work from home and leave minimal
employees to continue work in offices except those involved in
security, health, social services, sanitation, and disaster, who must
continue to work on full operation;
6.
Individuals are allowed to exercise or go out into the sun or get
some fresh air, provided that they are within a few meters from
their residence or dwelling;
7. All beach resorts and inland water resofts must be closed until
fufther notice.
SECTION 4.
1'
The food and medicine pass shall be used to buy food, medicines
or go to the hospital;
2'
Two (2) individuals can be named on the pass but only one (1)
named person therein can use it at any given time;
3.
FM pass can only be used from the hours of 6:00 AM to 6:00 pM;
4. All individuals on the streets must carry and, whenever asked by
law enforcement, must present their employee ID oR food and
medicine pass (FM pass) with valid ID, whichever is applicable;

Ord. No. 0256-20
5. Any individual in public without the proper employment IDs, FM
passes or not responding to an emergency shall be in violation of
this Ordinance.
6'
The abuse and unsactioned use of FM Pass shall be subject to its
revocation. For this purpose, the authorities should record the date
of usage and shall check the food and/or medicine actually
acquired or purchased upon re-entry of the individual to his/her
barangay address when ailowed by the circumstances;
SECTION 5. LAND TRAVEL _
A' Non-essential travel - All non-essential travel within Davao City is
suspended. Travel within Davao City is allowed only for the following:
1. Going to and from work for sectors allowed to operate, provided
they have Identification Cards;
2. Delivery of essential goods and seruices;
3. Buying food and medicine, provided the person has an FM pass;
4. Going to the
emergencies;
hospital, dentist, pharmacy or for medical
5. Law enforcement officers and those officially assisting in the
fight against COVID-19.
B. suspension of travet into and out of Davao city _ All private
vehicles and any mode of public transportation shall be prohibited from
crossing into and out of Davao city borders, except for cargo, transport
vehicles of COVID-19 frontline workers and skeleton w-or'kforces of
establishments that are allowed to operate during ECe. No mass
transport of individuals is allowed.
C' Jeepneys- All jeepneys must stop their operation except those hired to
wor! for the government, offices and businesses that are open during
the ECQ and those hauling cargoes.
D. These forms of transpoftation are allowed:
a. Private vehicles and taxis with one (1) driver and one (1)
passenger in front and one (1) at the back, obseruing physicar
distancing;
b. Tricycle with one (1) driver and one (1) passenger in front and
one (1) at the back, observing physical distancing;
c. Single rider motorcycle or bicycle;
d. Free bus rides from the government, or ECe exempt
establishments, provided that they create a syslem with
physical distance between passengers of at least one meter;

Ord, No. 0256-20
E.Unrestricted movement of Frontline Workers The following
workers are allowed unrestricted movement from their residence to their
place of work and shall be prioritized in any transportation
arrangements:
a. All DOH officials and staff;
b. All health and safety personnel stationed at LGU health
facilities;
c. All Philippine Red Cross vehicles bearing the Red Cross Logo
and staff with Red Cross Identification;
d. Core Staff from the World Health Organization Country and
Regional Offices;
e, All medical officials, hospital administrative staff, and aides from
private facilities, as well as their respective transpott seruice
providers.
F.Truck Ban - The schedule of the ban of trucks along the highways is
hereby lifted, until later restored;
G. Cargo - All cargoes (food and non-food) within, from and to Davao City
shall not be delayed, except for necessary health screening and safety
measures, decontamination and disinfection stations and identification
verification.
SECTION 6. sEA TRAVEL- All sea travel into Davao City is hereby suspended,
except for sea cargo and government vessels. Vessels can unload cargo in any port in
the City but all personnel and crew of the vessels are prohibited to come down from the
vessels.
SECTION 7. AIR TRAVEL - Domestic and Foreign Air travel to and from Davao
City at the Davao International Airport shall be suspended until the same is lifted by the
City Government of Davao.
The following are exempted from suspension:
1. Cargo flights;
2. Medical Evacuations;
3. Weather Mitigation flights;
4. Maintenance flights;
5. Government and Military flights;
6. Flights specifically allowed by the City Government of Davao;

Ord. No. 0256-20
7. Emergency landings:
a. As much as possible. no crew or passenger may disembark
without prior notice;
b. Passengers or crew who disembark must be placed under
isolation upon landing;
8. Recovery flights for expatriates, subject to prior clearance with the City
Government of Davao;
sEcTroN 8. E$TABLTSHMENTS -
A. AII private establishments and offices must close EXCEPT:
1. groceries, supermarkets;
2. wet markets/palengkes;
3. food commissaries, wholesale food outlets;
4. food processing or manufacturing;
5. food delivery seruices;
6. convenience and sari-sari stores;
7. hospitals, medical laboratories;
B. pharmacies, drugstores;
9. other health seruices/personnel;
10.banks and ATMs;
1 1. savings and credit cooperatives;
12. money-transfer services and bayad centers;
13. pawnshops;
14. courier seruices;
15. other delivery services;
16. doctor's and dentist's clinics;
17. gas stations;
18. water refilling stations;
19. LPG stations;
20. business process outsourcin gl call centers;
21. funeral parlors, cemeteries; and
22. mass media outlets.
Provided,
1. Whenever possible, skeletal workforce arrangement must be
implemented and, at all times, physical distancing between employees
must be obserued.

Ord. No. 0256-20
2. Sari-sari Stores must not allow people to stay and loiter, and must be
closed during the curfew hours of 6:00 P.M. to 6:00 A.M. of the next
day.
3. All wet markets/palengkes must have an entrance, exit and one way
direction for people to go through. People cannot turn around and go
back and cannot roam around the wet markets/palengkes. Public
Markets must be closed by 5pm each day,
4. All restaurants, cafes, bakeries and other similar food establishments
should close down their dining area and open only for take-out, inhouse delivery or food delivery services;
B. Essential Sectors - All other business establishments and private
offices not mentioned but are considered essential sectors, including
but not limited to energy, water, telecommunications, car$o, must work
only for preventive maintenance and during emergencies.
Agri-business and farms should reduce workload and extend their
deadlines to significantly reduce laborers in the job site and to create a
two-meter distance between laborers.
C. Other Sectors - Manufacturing, fabrication, and construction work
that is not pertinent to the food sector, the state of public health
emergency and state of calamity response should immediately cease
operation. All other business establishments and private offices not
mentioned are required to close and shift to online work and implement
a work at home scheme.
D. Food Vendors - Ambulant food vendors who are using different
modes of transportation to sell basic food commodities in the
barangays shall be allowed. Basic food commodities shall mean rice,
bread. meat, poultry, fish, fruits and vegetables, cooking oil and other
food condiments.
There must be a maximum of two (2) workers, one (1) driver and one
(1) assistant who shall wear face masks and shall implement proper
food handling.
SECTION 9. CURFEW- The curfew hours shall be from 6:00PM to 6:00AM of
the next day. Within the curfew hours, people cannot go out of their houses, except in
cases of emergencies or if going to work in the exempted sectors/frontline offices.
There is no need for any ID or pass in the event of an emergency.
The following workers are exempted from curfew:
l.Employed in government offices related to security, health, social seruices,
sanitation, and disaster;
2.24-hour g roceries/co nven ience stores;
3. Wet markets/paleng kes;
4.Food commissaries;
5. Food processing or manufacturing;

\
Ord. No. 0256-20
6. Food delivery seruices;
7. Hospitals, medical laboratories;
' B. Pharmacies, drugstores;
9. Other health services/personnel;
10. Doctor's and dentist's clinics;
11. Gas stations;
12. Funeral parlors;
13. Mass media outlets; and
14. Persons officially assisting in the fight against COVID-19.
Any person or persons not covered by the exemption who are outside their
residences during the curfew hours are in violation of this Ordinance and shall be
reprimanded and sanctioned accordingly.
SECTION 10. SPECIAL CURFEW FOR VULNERABLE SECTORS_ NO M|NOT,
senior citizen, pregnant woman, sick, and immune-compromised individual can 9o out
of their residence or dwelling except to go to the hospital, medical, or allied medical
institutions.
Those who live alone may get an FM pass or, whenever possible and if
appropriate, ask a neighbor or a friend to help them buy food and medicines. Whenever
possible, employers must assign their senior citizens to work from home.
In cases of minors, parents shall be held liable under this Ordinance for neglect
of minors.
SECTION 11. LIOUOR BAN - No liquor and any other alcoholic or intoxicating
drinks shall be sold, served, or consumed in public 24 hours of the day during the state
of public emergency.
SECTION 12. FUNERALS - Funeral parlors and private and public cemeteries
are mandated to impose a "family members only" wake and burial and at all times
demand compliance and observance of two-meter distance between family members
and frequent handwashing with soap and water.
SECTION 13. PATIENT- Any person classified as suspected, probable or
conflrmed case, or patients classified by the Department of Health as falling under any
category for purposes of COVID-i9 case investigation and monitoring, shall comply with
the existing DOH guidelines for their treatment, home quarantine, isolation or
confinement.
Any patient who:
Refuses to comply with the home quarantine or isolation;
Fails to fully comply with the terms of the home quarantine or
isolation;

Paqe B of 9
Ord.'No. 0256-20
Escapes or avoids home quarantine or isolation after being defined
as a PUM;
shall be in.violation of this Ordinance and shall be subject to government intervention,
without prejudice to other criminal actions.
SECTION 14. FALSIFICATION OF FOOD AND MEDICINE PASSES OR
EMPLOYEE IDENTIFICATION - Any person who shall make, fabricate, forge, imitate
or in any manner reproduce an FM pass without the authority of the City Mayor's Office,
or shall forge, counterfeit or fabricate an identification card or employee ceftificate, or
simulate or falsely represent themselves to be an employee of a sector exempt from the
curfew, establishment, closure or travel suspension, shall be liable under this
Ordinance.
SECTION 15. FAILURE TO DISCLOSE - Any person, who fails to immediately
disclose the fact of their recent travel history to Covid-19 areas with local transmission,
or exposure to known confirmed, suspect or probable cases of COVID-19 cases shall be
in violation of this Ordinance and shall be subject to government intervention, without
prejudice to other criminal actions.
SECTION 16. FALSE INFORMATION - No person shall create, spread,
announce, or claim any false or unverified statement in the guise of being an official
statement from the national or local government or any office, agency or official
connected with the fight against COVID - 19.
SECTION 17. PENALW CLAUSE
General Penalty Clause - Any violation of this Ordinance shall be punished
by the following penalties, without prejudice to the prosecution of other
criminal actions.
. lst Offense - a Fine of Three Thousand Pesos (P3,000)
. 2nd Offense - a Fine of Five Thousand Pesos (5,000) and/or
imprisonment of not more than 1 year, at the discretion of the
couft
SECTION 18. SEPARABILIW CLAUSE - If, for any reason, any SECTION of
this Ordinance is declared unconstitutional or invalid, other sections or provisions hereof
which are not affected thereby, shall continue to be in full force and effect.
SECTION 19. REPEALING CLAUSE - Any Ordinance, local issuances or rules
inconsistent with the provisions of this Ordinance are hereby repealed or modified,
accordingly.
SECTION 20. EFFECTMTY - This Ordinance shall take effect immediately
upon approval and publication.
ENACTED, on the 16th day of April 2020, by a unanimous vote of all the
Members of the Sanggunian, there being a quorum.

t'
I
t
Pagegofg'
Ord. No. 0256-20
SEBASTIAN Z. DUTERTE
Vice Ma'ycr
Presiding Cfficer
mtar/l,,itq (
CERTIFIED CORRECT:
For and in the absence of the Secretary:
APPRovEo : MAY 0 7 2020 . 2o2o
r,layov
|4^.rHEdElfu.REYEs
Acting Assistant Secretary to the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod
(Local Legislative Staff Officer IV)
ATTESTED:
ATTESTED:
ATTY.
{t'*
LEIKA T.
Administr
DUTERTE
6^