Office of the City Legal Officer
clo-2020-00091
April27,2O2O
Ref. No. CLO-2020
Legal Opinion No.316, SERIES of 2020
RE: ORDINANCE NO. 02-9J0,2ffSER|ES OF 2020 entitled "THE DAVAO CITY
SPECIAL NEEDS INTEflSENTION CENTER FOR CHILDREN".
1ttTNDoRSEMENT
April27,2020
Respectfully forwarded to the Office of the City Mayor, through the Office of the
City Administrator, both this City, the subject Ordinance No. 0230-20 SERIES of 2020,
informing your end that the measure is free from legal infirmity.
Caveat is hereby given that under "SECTION 13. CREATION OF POSITIONS"
there is no mention of salary grade of the positibns created in the subject ordinance.
This office assumes that the personnel will work as non-plantilla personnel of the City
Government of Davao.
ln view thereof, this office recommenOs tnlapprgald the subject ordinance
f@en'sn'r#ffi"
OSMUNDO P. VILLANUEVA JR,
Acting City Legal Officer
mag
Page. 1 ol 2
&.( -?C -,f

r
AttachmenUs
Signed_CLO-2020-00091_RES 01 044-20 ORD 0230-20 pdf
\
Page,2 o1 2

'iz'
iE!
t>
sa6i6rc
)
p..lyc
April22,2020
SARA Z. DUTERTE
City Mayor
Madam:
pursuant to Sub-SECTION 3, Paragraph C, SECTION 469, Article One, Title Five,
Chapter 3, Book III and SECTION 54, Book I of Republic Act No. 7160, othenruise known
as the Local Government Code of 1991, we are furnishing you a copy of Resolution
No. 01044-20 and Ordinance No. O23O-20, both SERIES of 2020 of the SANGGUNIANG
Panlungsod, for your information, guidance and appropriate action.
Very truly yours,
For and in the behalf of the Secretary:
MARIA THERESA A. REYES
Acting Assistant Secretary to the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod
(Local Legislative Staff Officer IV)
R;CEIV
. CRD
ETI

lgth City Council
8th Regular Session
SERIES of 2020
PRESENTI
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
ABSENT:
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Edgar P. Ibuyan Jr.
Ralph O. Abella
Nilo D. Abellera
Wilberto E. Al-ag
Dante L. Apostol Sr.
Conrado C. Baluran
Jessica M. Bonguyan
Louie John J. Bonguyan
Pilar C. Braga
Augusto Javier G. Campos III
Jonard C. Dayap
Edgar R. Ibuyan Sr.
Richlyn N. Justol-Baguilod
Pamela A. Librado-Morata
Diosdado Angelo Junior R. Mahipus
Jaffar U. Marohomsalic
Bonifacio E. Militar
Myrna G. L'Dalodo-Ortiz
Antoinette G. Principe-Castrodes
J. Melchor B. Quitain Jr.
Albefto T. Ungab
Mary Joselle D. Villafuerte
Jesus Joseph P. Zozobrado III
Vice Mayor Sebastian Z. Duterte
- Temporary Presiding Officer
- OB - Attended the First Quarter
Regular Meeting of the City Peace
and Order Council
- On fficial Business
- On Official Business
- On Domestic Emergency Leave
Maria Belen S. Acosta
Bai Hundra Cassandra Dominique N. Advincula
Danilo C. Dayanghirang
ORDINANCE NO. O23O-20
SERIES of 2020
AN ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING THE DAVAO CITY SPECIAL
NEEDS INTERVENTION CENTER FOR CHILDREN DIRECTING
ITS OBJECTIVES AND PROVIDING FUNDS FOR THE PURPOSE

Page 2 of I
Ord. No. 0230-20
Be it ordained by the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod of Davao City in session
assembled, that:
SECTION 1. TITLE - This Ordinance sha!! be known as the "THE DAVAO CITY
SPECIAT NEEDS INTERVENTION CENTER FOR CHILDREN."
SECTIOil 2. DECLARATION OF POLICY- It isthe policy of the City Government
of Davao, pursuant to the mandate of the 1987 Philippine Constitution to promote the
right of all citizens to quality education and services and take appropriate steps to make
education accessible to all and offer quality interventions for children with developmental
delays and behaviora! concerns. Thus, the City Government hereby commits to establish
the Davao City Special Needs Interuention Center for Children to provide free
interyention and special education to children with special needs.
SECTION 3. NAME OF INSTITUTION. The *DAVAO CITY SPECIAL NEEDS
INTERVENITION CENTER FOR CHILDREN", to be hereinafter referred to as the
"CENTER'is hereby named as such or in accordance with law and within the power
and limitations hereinafter specified.
SECTION 4. PUPI9SES - The CENTER, which operates all year round, shall be
established to provide educational and therapy seruices to children and youth with
specia! needs. The CENTER addresses the concerns and skills deficit brought about by
Intellectual Disability, Global Developmental Delay, Autism Spectrum Disorder,
Communication Disorders, Attention-DeficiVHyperactivity Disorder, Specific Learning
Disorderc, Motor Disorders, Visual and Hearing Impairment other Neuro-developmental
Disorders and related behavioral, sensory and cognitive delays.
The state-of-the-art CENTER also offers the following programs and seruices
to prepare the children and youth with special needs for success and high quality of life
in a mainstream society:
A. Allied Medical Services:
a. Occupational Therapy (OT)
b. Physical Therapy (PT)
c. Speech Therapy
d. Aqua Therapy
B. Special Education Seruices
a. Early Intervention
b. Transition Program
The Center shall also operate as a Resource Center for Inclusive Education which
shall support children with special needs integrated in regular schools, assist in the
conduct of school-based in-seruice training, produce appropriate teaching materials and
conduct continuous assessment of children with specia! needs.
The CENTER shall also operate as a venue for support groups for parents who
have children with special needs.

Ord. No.0230-20
SECTION 5: DEFINITION OF TERMS.
A. Children with Special ileeds - are gifted and fast learners and those who
are disabled, impaired and handicapped children in need of special education
as well as services and rehabilitation. He/She differs from the average child
in:
a. Mental characteristics;
b. Sensory abilities;
c. Neuromuscular or physical characteristics;
d. Multiple handicaps;
e. Neuro developmental disorder and/or
f. Has a developmental lag to such an extent that he/she
requires modified school practices or specia! education
seruices to develop to his/her maximum capability:
The Intellectua! Handicapped - are those who have
the substantial limitation in present functioning
characterized by significant sub-average
intellectual functioning, existing concurrently with
related limitations in two or more of the applicable
adaptive skill areas: communication, self-direction,
home Iiving social skills, community use, health
and safety, functional academics, leisure and work.
The Hearing Impaired - are those who are deaf or
hard-of-hearing. A deaf peson is one whose
hearing is non-functional for ordinary purposes in
life. The hard-of hearing has a sense of hearing,
which although defective, is functional with or
without a hearing aid.
iii.
StudenVChildren with Behavior Problems - are
those who cannot adjust to the socially accepted
norms or behavior and consequently disrupt their
academic progress, the learning effoft of their
classmates and interpersonal relations.
The Orthopedically Handicapped - are those whose
impai rment, perma nently or tempora ri ly, i ntefferes
with the normal functions of the joints, muscles or
limbs.
B. Special instructional materials - may include, but is not
limited to, a textbook in Braille, large type or any other medium
or apparatus that conveys information to a student or otherwise
contributes to the learning process.
C. Special Education - is basic education that takes into account
the special needs of both disabled children and gifted children that
requires a systematic and deliberate process for them to achieve
functional literacy and which will bring the individualto the highest
level of his potential and capacity. It is also defined as the type of
education tailored to meet the needs of children who cannot profit
because of disabilities or exceptional abilities.
iv
ii.

Ord. No.0230-20
SECTION 6. ADMISSION. The CENTER shall have a system of admission which
shall facilitate the enrollment of children with specia! needs regardless of gender,
religious belieft, status or political affiliations. Provided, however, that admission shall
be given to the bonafide residents of Davao City who belong to indigent families or low
income families, subject to rules and regulations on admission and retention prescribed
by the Council and/or the City Social Welfare and Development Office.
SECTION T.
COUilCIL The overall governance of the CENTER shall be vested in a Special Needs
Intervention Center for Children Council to be hereinafter referred to as the "COUNCIL',
to be composed of persons of known probity and integrity, and with great interest in the
continuing development of the City of Davao, and shall consist of seventeen (17)
members, as follows:
a. The Davao City Mayor as Chairperson;
b. The City Social Welfare & Development Officer;
c. The City Health Officer;
d. The City Treasurer;
e. The City Budget Officer;
f. The Chairperson of the Committee on Social Seruices;
g. The Chairperson of the Committee on Health;
h. The Chairperson of the Committee on Education, Science & Technology,
Arts & Culture;
i. The City School's Division Superintendent of Davao City;
j. The Chief of Hospital of Southern Philippines Medical Center;
k. The Administrator of the Davao City Special Needs Intervention Center;
l. The representative of the Professional Organization of
Occupational Therapists of Davao City;
m. The representative of the Professional Organization of Physical
Therapists of Davao City;
n. The representative of the Proftssional Organization of Speech
Pathologists of Davao City;
o. The representative of the Association of Special Education Teachers of
p. The representative of the Philippine Society for Developmental and
Behavioral Pediatrics;
q. One (1) distinguished citizen of the community representing the parents
of children with specia! needs to be appointed by the City Mayor;
The member of the Council appointed by the City Mayor shall serue for three (3)
years, and thereafter, the Mayor wil! appoint his/her successor.
SECTION 8. OUALIFICATIONS. All members of the Council shall be Filipino
citizens and residents of Davao City.
SECTION 9. COMPENSATION. Counci! Members shall serve without
compenstion, other than honorarium, for attendance in Council meetings and for offtcial
business, only duly authorized by the Board, subject to availability of funds.
SECTION 10. PROHIBffiON. Members of the Council shall not have any
business interest, directly or indirectly, in any aspect of the center operations.

Page 5'of 8
Ord. No.0230-20
SECTION 11. FOWERS AND DUTIES OF THE COUNCIL. The Council
shall have the following powers and duties, in consonance with existing laws:
a. To receive and appropriate such sums of money, propefties, or materials
as may be provided by an Ordinance of the City of Davao for the suppott
of the CENTER;
b. To establish the necessary curricula, programs and projects responsive
to the social and economic needs of children with special needs;
c. To recommend and to sit as a member of the Human Resource Merit
Promotion and Selection Board (HRMPSQ) in the selection fur positions to
be filled up by the Council on recommendation of the Center
Administrator: namely: the Officia! of the Center, the teachers who have
training in special education, interuention, therapy, support personnel,
technical advisers and other Center personnel, and to remove them for
just cause after an investigation and hearing shall have been conducted;
d. To prescribe rules for its own governance and to enact, for the
governance of the CENTER, such general policies, rules and regulations
which are consistent with its purpose as defined in SECTION 4 of this
Ordinance;
e. To provide a compensation scheme, including direct and indirect fringe
benefits for all CENTER personnel, and to fix their hours of work, duties
and such other conditions and processes as it may deem proper under
existing laws;
f. To receive in trust, tax free, all legacies, gift donations and grants of
personal and real propefties and other forms of donation, and to
administer the same for the benefit of the CENTER in accordance with the
instructions of the donor, or in default thereof, in such other manner as
it may determine;
g. To act expeditiously on all academic matters refened to it by the
Academic Division;
h. To provide a system of scholarships and fellowships, and to award the
same to students, faculty, and the staff on the basis of merit and fitness;
To establish a system for the initial assessment, check-up and succeeding
evaluations and follow ups of special needs children in partnership with
the Child's Institute of the Southern Philippines Medical Center (SPMC),
and any member of the Philippine Society for Developmental and
Behavioral Pediatrics;
j. To provide a grievance machinery for any concern involving students,
faculty, staff and employees in the CENTER; and
k. To perform other things not inconsistent with law and as it may deem
appropriate for the proper guidance and operation of the CENTER.

Page 6 bf 8
Ord. No. 0230-20
SECTIOil f2. ACTIOilS AGAINST THE COUNCIL. Actions and processes
against the Council shall be served to the Center Administrator or the Center Secretary
thereof.
SECTION 13.
. The Davao City Special Needs
Intervention Center shall be composed of the following personnel:
One (1) DCSNICC Center Manager;
One (1) Administrative Officer II;
One (1) Physician/Pediatrician
One (1) Nurse;
One (1) Audiologisfi
One (1) Optometrist;
One (1) Occupational Therapist;
One (1) Physical Therapist
One (1) Speech and Language Therapist;
One (1) Psychologist;
One (1) SPED Teacher - Visual Impairment
One (1) SPED Teacher - Hearing Impairment
One (1) SPED Teacher - Intellectually Handicapped;
One (1) SPED Teacher
Two (2) Auxiliary Teachers
One (1) Administrative Aide VI;
One (1) Administrative Seruice Assistant;
One (1) Janitor; and
SECTION L4, RESPONSIBILITY FOR SPECIAL EDUCATION
ADMINISTRATION. Responsibility for special education administration shall devolve
upon the Center Manager and Center offtcials.
fiere shall be an Administrative SECTION, an Allied Medical Services SECTION and a
Special Education SECTION with the Center Manager as the Presiding Officer.
SECTIOil 15. THE CEilTER SECTIONS. The Special Education SECTION shall
consist of the Center Manager as the Presiding Officer and the teachers with the rank of
instructor and above.
The Special Education SECTION shall be responsible for determining curricular
offerings, courses of study, academic policies and rules and disciplines, requirements
for admission and retention, subject to the approval of the Council upon the
recommendation of the Center Manager.
The Administrative SECTION shall be headed by the Center Manager as the
Presiding Officer, and the heads of all administrative matters, which shal! be in suppoft
of the instruction, research and the extension seruices of the CENTER.
Allied Medical Services SECTION shall be responsible for the planning,
implementation, execution and monitoring of therapeutic seruices for children with
special needs.
SECTION 16. THE SECRETARY OF THE CENTER. There shall be a Secretary of
the Center who shal! serve as Council Secretary, responsible for all documentation,
records, and information dissemination of all decisions of the Center Manager and the
Council to ensure proper implementation, monitoring and evaluation.

Ord. No.0230-20
SECTION 17. CENTER POLICY. The Council shall formulate policies that shall
encourage students as well as parents to pafticipate in the programs initiated by the City
Government of Davao.
SECTION 18J9UBBI9UU|U. The Curriculum of the CENTER shall be affirmed
and approved by the Council. It shall conform to the standard requirements of DepEd
and any change/enrichmenVenhancement thereto shall be implemented based on the
approval of the Council.
SECTION 19. COLLECTION OF FEES. The CENTER shall not collect tuition fee,
professional fee or any other fees from students/parents, other than those authorized by
the Department of Education and the City Government of Davao.
SECTION 20. FUNDING. The City Government shall allocate funds from the
City's General Fund to ensure the delivery of basic seruices of the Center. Fufther,
additional funding requirements necessary for the smooth operation of the CENTER may
be refened to the Local School Board (LSB) for appropriate action. The CENTER may
receive funding from Non-Government Organizations (NGOs) such as donations, grants,
etc.
SECTION 2L, ADDITIONAL COMPENSATION. To attract competenf
dedicated and committed allied medical seruices personnel, teaching and non-teaching
staff shall be for the account of the City Government's General Fund.
SECTION 22. COUNCIL MEETING. The Council shal! meet regularly once in
every quafter or in a special session as may be deemed necessary by the Chairperson
and the Center Manager or any nine (9) of its members. A majority of the members shall
constitute a quorum to transact business. All acts of the Council shall be collegial and no
member may take action, on any matter, on his own.
SECTION 23. GENERAL PROVISIONS. The SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod shall
appropriate funds deemed necessary for the operation of the CENTER. The budget shall
be under the account of the City Social Welfare and Development Office (CSWDO),
provided further that the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod may also appropriate additional funds
for special programs as may it deem necessary to be undeftaken by the Center, outside
of its regular budget.
SECTION 24. EMBLEM, COLOR AND SEAL. The CENTER shall adopt its
emblem, color, sea! and other appuftenances consistent and reflective of special
education and values that shall enhance the dignity of Filipino children with special needs.
SECTION 25. REPORTS. There shall be an annual report prepared by the Council
to be submitted to the City Mayor, the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod and the DeparUnent of
Education (DepEd) setting fofth the programs, conditions, needs, problems, and progress
made by the Center.
SECTION 26. SEPARABILITY CLAUSE - If for justifiable reasons, any SECTION
or provision of this Ordinance is declared unconstitutional or invalid by a competent couft,
no other SECTION or provision shall be affected thereby.
SECTION 27. REPEALING CLAUSE. Any resolution, ordinance or any paft
hereof found inconsistent with the provisions of this Ordinance, are hereby repealed
and/or modified accordingly.
SECTION 28. EFFECTMTY - This Ordinance shalltake effect upon its approval.

Page B of I
Ord. No. 0230-20
ENACTED, February 20, 2020, by a unanimous vote of all Members of the
Sanggunian, there being a quorum.
CERTIFIED CORRECT:
City
ATTESTED:
ATTESTED:
EDGAR P. IBUYAN
'R.
President Pro Tempore
Temporary Presiding Officer
cns/ray
ATTY.
T
chM'&tt#",
Secretary to the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod
(City Government Depafirnent Head I.'p"
APPRovED. 2 t' APi 20lm, zozo
City Mayoy