j.,"9li
a.,
affifls
Republic of dhe Philippines
OFFTCE OF THE CTryMAYOR
as
I
?
r'n
CORRESPONDENCE AND RECORDS DIVISION
2nd Indorsement
May 13, 2020
Respectfully forwarded to Ms. Charito N. Santos, Secretary to the
SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod, SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod, this city, the herein duly signed
Ordinances, to wit:
. 1. Ord. 0257-20 SERIES of 2020 entitled "An Ordinance Waiving the Interest,
Penalties, and Surcharges, Incurred for Non-Payment of all Local Taxes,
i\
Fees, Charges, and Fines which fall due during the Period of Community
Quarantine and Enhanced Community Quarantine in Davao City"
il*
{
7l&L lr
/
7,'t.
t
yvl v
Pili/'6
d
Q)
6.
I
ff*.ro
2. Ord. 0255-20 SERIES of 2020 entitled "An Ordinance Prohibiting any Form
Harrassment, Discrimination, Prejudice or Inflicting any Shame or
Humiliation against Frontline Workers, Suspected, Probable and Confirmed
Covid Cases and Close Contacts during and after the State of National
Health Emergenry and Imposing Penalties therein"
3. Ord. 068-19 SERIES of 2019 entitled "An Ordinance Reorganizing the City
Archives and Records Office, the City Mayor's Office - Correspondence and
Records Division, the City Health, the City Legal Office, and the City
Administrator's Office-City Economic Enterprise"
' 4. Ord. 0215-20 SERIES of 2020 entitled "An Ordinance Approving the Request
for Exception of Mr. Ricky Porras from Article XI, SECTION 2 of the
Comprehensive Zoning Ordinance of Davao City (2013-2022) for the
Operation of Mini Gasoline Station located in Riverside, Calinan, this City"
.5.
Ord. 0247-20 SERIES of 2020 entitled "An Ordinance Instituting the Davao
City Covid-19 Emergency Response Policies"
Ord. 0243-20 SERIES of 2020 entitled "An Ordinance Extending the Deadline
of the Second Quafterly Installment for Payment of Business Tax; First
Quarterly Installment for Real Propefi Tax and Additional Levy on Real
Property for the Special Education Fund; and Rental Fees from March to
June to Public Markets, Davao City Overland Transport Terminal (DCCOT)
, Sta. Ana Poft, Magsaysay Park and Pasalubong Center to June 30,2020
in view of the threat of the Corona Virus Disease (COVID 19) in the
Philippines "
Second Floor, City Hall Building, San Pedro St., Davao City
(A84 227 -257 7 . (082) 224-5 87 8 . d ava ocitym ayo r@g m a i l.co m
a1- ?;Zd
'r"4 I
lx tt
(
v 4-/tu\

W
7. Ord. 0164-19 SERIES of 2019 entitled "An Ordinance Granting the
Application of San Isidro Labrador Homeowners Association Inc, for the
Reclassification of a 40,t64 square meters, more or less, parcel of land,
covered by T-371940 from Prime Agricultural Land Sub-Zone to Socialized
Housing Zone situated at Purok 10, Biao Escuela, Tugbok District, this City"
" B. Ord. 0245-20 SERIES of 2020 entitled "An Ordinance Imposing a Liquor Ban
in the City of Davao from 5:00 P.M. to 8:00 A,M., until the Community
; !
Quarantine is lifted"
9, Ord.0242-20 SERIES of 2020 entitled "An Ordinance Imposing a Community
/),,, l ,'r,',.' Quarantine Curfew in the City of Davao from 9:00 P.M. to 5:00 A.M., until
the Community Quarantine is lifted"
. 10.Ord. 0198-20 SERIES of 2020 entitled "An Ordinance Establishing the City
College of Davao (CCD), defining its mandate and appropriating funds
PfrO
Pil/v\ u'fr* ('\
thereof"
. 11.Ord. 0161-19 SERIES of 2019 entitled "An Ordinance granting the Application
of Mother of Perpetual Help Homeowners Association of Sasa, Inc, for
rezoning of the Relocation Site from Medium Density Residential Sub-Zone
to Socialized Housing Zone located at Sasa Old Airpoft, this City"
w
#alfi^W
MARr GRAct P. NflIONG
Officer-In-Chaffi
RELEASED
'r
(

Republic of the PhitripFines
Office of the City Legal Officer
cLo-2020-00052
Apri!03, 2O2O
Ref. No. CLO-2020Legal Opinion No. 301, SERIES of 2020
RE: ORDINANCE NO. 0247-20, SERIES OF 2020 entitled "AN ORDINANCE
INSTTTUTING THE DAVAO CITY COVID.I9 EMERGENCY RESPONSE
POLICIES".
1st INDORSEMENT
April3, 2020
Respectfully fonvarded to the Office of the City Mayor, through the Office of the
City Administrator, both this City, the subject Ordinance No. 0247-20, SERIES of 2020,
with the information that this office finds no legal infirmity in its provisions as well as
the passage thereof. The measure aims to address the current health problem,
particularly the Covidl9 disease, besetting the City, and under SECTION '16 of Republic
Act No. 7160, local government units has the power to pass measures for the
promotion of health and safety and convenience of the people.
Furthermore, Presidential Proclamation No. 922 putting the entire country under
State of Public Health Emergency, allows LGUs to adopt measures to mitigate the
impact of the Covidl9 pandemic.
And finally, SECTION a58 (a) (5) (xii) of RA 7160 empowers the SANGGUNIANG
Panlungsod to pass ordinances to prevent the introduction and spread of diseases, to
quote:
"(xii) Approve measures and adopt quarantine regulations to prevent the
introduction and spread of diseases;"
Thus, the approval of the subject ordinance is hereby respectfully
recommended.
Respectfu I ly submitted.
.1;ffi ffi;i!fli',F#rl,Tli'"
ffry*'*
OSMUNDO P. VILLANUEVA JR
Asst. City Legal Officer, OIC
RffiffiffiH\fHD
CMIC " eRI)
0 3 i.ri'li 2020 Jlot Lt.-
qal- l-N

t Republic of the Philippines
sa6ilr.(
(r,zi
March 30,2020
)1o so _
SARA Z. DUTERTE
City Mayor
Madam:
pursuant to Sub-SECTION 3, Paragraph C, SECTION 469, Afticle One, Title Five,
Chapter 3, Book III and SECTION 54 Book I of Republic Act No. 7160, otherwise known
as the Local Government Code of 1991, we are furnishing you a copy of Resolution No.
01112-20 and Ordinance No. O247-2O, both SERIES of 2020 of the SANGGUNIANG
Panlungsod, for your information, guidance and appropriate action.
Very truly yours,
cftk;6\)r$ro,
Secretary to the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod
(City Government Department Head II)
IVErI
F
R
5\(i P1
t

19th City Council
12th Regular Session
SERIES of 2020
PRESENT:
Republic of the PHlippines
Edgar P. Ibuyan Jr.
Sebastian Z. Dutefte
Nilo D. Abellera
Maria Belen S. Acosta
Bai Hundra Cassandra Dominique N. Advincula
Dante L. Apostol Sr.
Jessica M. Bonguyan
Louie John J. Bonguyan
Augusto Javier G. Campos III
Danilo C. Dayanghirang
Jonard C. Dayap
Diosdado Angelo Junior R. Mahipus
Jaffar U. Marohomsalic
Myrna G. L'Dalodo-Ortiz
Antoinette G. Principe-Castrodes
J. Melchor B. Quitain Jr.
Albefto T. Ungab
Jesus Joseph P. Zozobrado III
Ralph O. Abella
Wilberto E. AI-ag
Conrado C. Baluran
Pilar C. Braga
Edgar R. Ibuyan Sr.
-Temporary Presiding Officer
- On Domestic Emergenry Leave
- On Domestic Emergency Leave
- On Domestic Emergenry Leave
-OB- Attended to an important
matter in the barangay
- On Domestic Emergency Leave
- On Sick Leave
- On Domestic Emergenry Leave
Councilor
Vice Mayor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
ABSENT:
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Richlyn N. Justol-Baguilod
Pamela A. Librado-Morata
Bonifacio E. Militar
Mary Joselle D. Villafuefte
ORDINANCE NO. O247-2O
SERIES of 2020
AN ORDINANCE INSTITUTING THE DAVAO CITY COVID.19
EMERGENCY RESPONSE POLICIES
l<-**t

Ord. No. 0247-20
Be it ordained by the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod of Davao City in session assembled,
that:
SECTION 1. TITLE This Ordinance shall be known as *AN ORDINANCE
INSTITUTING THE DAVAO CITY COVID-lg EMERGENCY RESPONSE POLICIES."
SECTION 2. COVERAGE -This Ordinance shall be imposed upon all persons, entities
and establishments within the City of Davao, until the existing Community Quarantine or
State of Public Health Emergency is lifted, or unless any paft therein is earlier modified,
withdrawn or extended.
SECTION 3. COMMUNITY QUARANTIilE - The entire City of Davao is placed
under Community Quarantine which shall have the following effects:
1. No person can go out of their residence, dwelling, and its immediate
surroundings except those who will buy food or medicin€, go to the hospital or in
an emergency situation, and except as herein provided;
2. Imposing a social distancing measure of at least two meters between all persons
in public areas;
3. Face masks are mandatory when going out in public;
4. Suspension of al! mass gatherings including those which are religious,
educational, or recreational in nature;
5. The implementation of a flexible work plan or a work from home system for all
public and private employment;
6. All public and private educational institutions should prepare for online
enrollment procedures and the possibility of online classes for the months of
April to July 2020;
7. All private hospitals in Davao City are not allowed to admit Persons Under
Investigation (PUIs) and COVID-l9 positive patients. The Southern Philippines
Medical Center (SPMC) shall be the primary hospital for severe and critical
COVID-19 PUI and positive patients. Other centers available for mild PUIs shall
receive patients referred to them by SPMC.
SECTION 4. LAND TRAVEL -
A. Non-essential travel - All non-essential travel to, from and in Davao City is
suspended.
Travel into, out of and within Davao City is allowed only for the following:
1. Going to and from work;
2. Delivery of essential goods and seruices;
3. Buying food, medicines and other essential goods, or availing of essential
seruices;
4. Going to the hospital, dentist, pharmacy or for medical emergencies;
5. Law enforcement officers and those officially assisting in the fight against
Covid 19;
6. Other analogous humanitarian considerations.
Anyone can leave the city at any time but cannot come back during the quarantine
period.
B. Public Transpoftation -
1. Jeepney drivers shall continue to work for the government by providing
public transportation service, sanitation of jeepney units, implementation
of social distancing and wearing of masks in public;
,
It

Ord. No. 0247-2A
2. Taxis shall accommodate a maximum of two (2) passengers only per trip.
Tricycles and trisikads shall carry one (1) passenger only per trip;
3. There shall be a "no-madg no ride" policy in the use of all kinds of public
transportation;
C. Truck Ban - The schedule of the ban of trucks along the highways is hereby tifted,
until later restored.
D. Cargo - No person or vehicle shall be allowed to enter Davao City except for
vehicles with cargo and one (1) driver with no assistant. "Cargo" shail include animals,
vegetables, and all other non-living things but not dead human bodies. The following
are additional rules for cargoes:
1. The driver cannot disembark from the truck;
2. Cargo vehicles assistants may disembark at the checkpoint and wait for the truck
to come back and leave Davao City;
3. Cargo vehicle final destination must be within Davao City;
4. Empty cargo vehicles may come in to pick up cargo inside Davao City with one
(1) driver only and no assistant.
SEfiION 5. SEA TRAVEL - All sea travel into Davao City is hereby suspended,
except for sea cargo and government vessels. Vessels can unload cargo in any port in
the City but all personnel and crew of the vessels are prohibited from disembarking from
the vessels.
SECTION 6. AIR TRAVEL - Domestic and Foreign Air travel to and from Davao City
at the Davao International Airport shall be suspended until the same is lifted by the City
Government.
The following are exempted from suspension:
1. Cargo flights
2. Medical Evacuations
3. Weather Mitigation flights
4. Maintenance flights
5. Government and Military flights
6. Flights specifically allowed by the City Government;
7. Emergency landings:
a. As much as possible, no crew or passenger may disembark without
prior notice;
b. Passengers or crew who disembark must be placed under isolation
upon landing;
8. Recovery flights for expatriates, subject to prior clearance with the City
Government;
SECTION 7. CLOSURE OF ESTABLISHMEI{TS - All establishments and offices
must be closed for the duration of the Community Quarantine;
1. Exemptions: The following are allowed to remain open, but, whenever possible,
a skeletal workforce arrangement must be implemented to create distancing
between employees:
a. government offices,
b. groceries, supermarkets, and wet markets/palengkes,

Ord. No. 0247-20
c. food commissaries, food manufacturing and food delivery seruices,
d. wholesale stores, convenience stores and sari-sari stores,
e. hospitals, medical laboratories, and the iike
f. pharmacies, drugstores, and the like
g. banks and ATMs,
h. savings and credit cooperatives,
i. money-transfer services and bayad centers,
j. courier seruices, other delivery seruices,
k. manufacturing, fabrication, construction companies and hardware stores,
l. doctors and dentists'clinics,
m. gas stations,
n. water refilling stations,
o. LPG stations,
p. and business process outsourcing/call centers
provided that:
a. All open business establishments and private offices should hire augmentation
security personnel for their facilities;
b. All restaurants, cafes, bakeries and other similar food establishments should
close down their dining area and open only for take-out, in-house delivery or
food delivery services;
c. All wet markets/palengkes must have an entrance, exit and one way direction for
people to go through. People cannot turn around and go back and cannot roam
around the wet markets/palengkes;
d. Sari-sari stores must not allow people to stay and loiter, and must be closed
during the cufew hours of 9:00 P.M. to 5:00 A.M. of the next day;
e. Ambulant food and non-food vendors are prohibited from selling anywhere;
f . Manufacturing, fabrication, construction, agri-business and other similar sectors
should reduce workload and e)(tend their deadlines to significantly reduce
laborers in the job site and to create a two meter distance between laborers;
g. All backyard cockfighting/sabong shall be prosecuted under peftinent laws and
regulations;
2. AII other business establishments and private offices not mentioned are required to
close, shift to online work and implement a work at home scheme.
SECTION 8. BUSINESS PROCESS OUTSOURCING (BPO) OFFICES
BPOs/Call Centers, per mandate of Department of Trade and Industry Memorandum
Circular No. 20-08, SERIES 2020, have two (2) options only:
1. Skeleton workforce with social distancing and appropriate temporary
accommodation arrangements within the vicinity and with shuttle seruice;
2. Work from home arrangements;
If BPOs/Call Centers cannot comply with either of the two options, it shal! be closed
down immediately.
SECTION 9. CURFEW - A daily curfew from 9:00 P.M. to 5:00 A.M. of the next
day shall be imposed upon all persons within the City of Davao, until the existing
Community Quarantine is lifted.

Page 5 of 7:
Ord. No. 0247-20
Exemptions from the curfew are:
1. Employees of establishments providing basic necessities, i.e. those employed in:
a. public markets, supermarkets, groceries, convenience stores,
b. hospitals, medical and dental clinics, pharmacies and drug stores,
c. food preparation and delivery seruices, water-refilling stations,
manufacturing and processing plants of basic food products and
medicines,
d. banks, couriers, money transfer seruices,
e. power, energy, water and telecommunications supplies;
f. media personne!;
g. public transpoftation or the transpoftation of goods and services;
h. persons transiting to and from work;
provided those persons enumerated above shal! present their necessary
identification and ceftificate of employment;
2. Persons accessing basic necessities and emergency seruices such as:
a. Those buying food or medicines;
b. Those requiring immediate health seruices;
c. Those doing other essential activities covered by analogous medical and
humanitarian reasons.
3. Authorized government officials and personnel of Iaw enforcement agencies;
4. Persons officially assisting in the fight against COVID-l9.
Any person not covered by the exemption who are outside their residences during the
cufew hours are in violation of this Ordinance and shall be reprimanded and sanctioned
accordingly.
SECTION 10. SPECIAL CURFEW FOR VULNERABLE SECTORS - AII senior
citizens, minors, pregnant women, sick and immune-compromised individuals within the
City of Davao are mandated to remain in their homes under a twenty-four (24) hour
cu#ew or home quarantine.
Those covered under this Ordinance may leave their households in case they are
the sole head of the family capable of accessing necessary goods and seruices, to answer
to medical emergencies, or to undergo routine medical procedures for chronic illnesses.
SECTION ll.-IIQU0RBAN - A liquor ban from 5:00 P.M. to 8:00 A.M. of the
next day shall be imposed upon all persons within the City of Davao, until the existing
CommuniW Quarantine is lifted.
No person or entity shall sel! or serve liquor, alcoholic beverages, coconut wine and
other nature wines and the like that causes intoxication within the period provided.
SECTION I2.-|!INEBA!$ - Funeral parlors and private and public cemeteries
are mandated to impose a "family members only" wake and burial and at all times
demand compliance and obseruance of two (2) meter distance between family members
and frequent handwashing with soap and water.
SECTION 13.
- Asymptomatic
patients who within 14 days prior, have recent travel history to identified areas with local

Ord. No. 0247-20
SECTION 13. PATIENT UNDER MONITORII{G (PUMs) - Asymptomatic
patients who within 14 days prior, have recent travel history to identified areas with local
Covid-19 transmissions, or have been exposed to otfier PUMs, must be quarantined at
home or at barangay isolation units for 14 days to monltor the development of symptoms.
Any PUM who:
1. Refuses to comply with the home quarantine or isolation;
2. Fails to fully comply with the terms of the home quarantine or isolation;
3. Escapes or avoids home quarantine or isolation after being defined as a PUM;
shal! be in violation of this Ordinance and shall be subject to government interyention,
without prejudice to other criminal actions.
SECTION 14.
- Patients who are
exhibiting symptoms and who within 14 days prior, have recent travel history to identified
areas with local COVID-19 transmissions or have been in close contact with a confirmed
COVID-l9 case, or have been in close contact with other PUIs must refer themselves or
the affected patient to the proper authorities.
Any PUI who:
1. Refuses to comply with the home quarantine or isolation;
2. Fails to fully comply with the terms of the home quarantine or isolation;
3. Escapes or avoids home quarantine or isolation after being defined as a PUI;
shall be in violation of this Ordinance and shall be subject to government intervention,
without prejudice to other criminal actions.
SECTION 15. FAILURE TO DISCLOSE - Any person, who fails to immediately
disclose the fact of their recent travel history to Covid-19 areas with loca! transmission,
or exposure to known PUMs or PUIs, shall be in violation of this ordinance and shall be
subject to government interuention, without prejudice to other criminal actions.
SECTION 16. PENALTY CIAUSE _
A. Any violation of Sections 2 to 12 of this Ordinance shall be punished by:
1st Offense - a Fine of P3,000
2nd Offense - a Fine of P5,000 and/or imprisonment of not more than 1 year, at
the discretion of the coutt
o
a
without prejudice to the prosecution of other criminal actions
B. Any violation of Sections 13, 14 and 15 of this Ordinance shall be punished by a
Fine of P5,000 and imprisonment of not more than I year, at the discretion of the
court, without prejudice to the prosecution of other criminal actions.
Provided, that if the offender is a minor, the laws and regulations of the Philippines
concerning minors shall apply, but the parent or guardian of such minor shall pay the
stated fines.

PageT of7
Ord. No. 0247-20
SECTION 17. SEPARABILITY CLAUSE - If, for any reason, any SECTION of this
Ordinance is declared unconstitutional or invalid, the other sections or provisions hereof
which are not affected thereby, shall continue to be in full force and effect.
SECTION 18, REPEALIT{G CI-AUSE - Any Ordinance, loca! issuances or rules
inconsistent with the provisions of this Ordinance are hereby repealed or modified,
accordingly.
SECTION 19. EFFECTMW - This Ordinance shall take effect 15 days upon
approval and publication in a newspaper of local circulation in the City of Davao.
ENACTED, March 24, 2020, by a unanimous vote of all Members of the
Sanggunian, there being a quorum.
CERTIFIED CORRECT:
afu6i.Jffio,
Secretary to the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod
(City Government Depaftment Head II)4.
ATTESTED
ATTESTED:
President
Temporary
cns/ray
AppRoVED: uE APR 20A.
2020
z.
RTE
City Mayo2
^*r^ffi*oPEz
City Administl
I