hepublic of tne Philippines
OFFICE OF.THE EITY'LEGAL O
Tel. No. 298-5970
Tftnk Line No. 241-10@ t(rcztrilihlo
-,:.-,.11'.
iit ,27 I'IAll
,0
Ref. No. CLO-2020-001337
&ti.oll rf "
fd()Af"O pinion No. d86 ,
SERIES of 2020
RE: ORDINANCE NO. O19B-20, SERIES OF 2O2O CNtitICd "AN
ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING CITY COLLEGE OF DAVAO (CCD),
DEFINING ITS MANDATE AND APROPRIATING FUNDS THEREOF"
I't INDoRSEMENT
March 20,2020
Respectfully forwarded to the Office of the City Mayor, through the Office
of the City Administrator, both this City, the subject Ordinance, finding the same
free from legal infirmlty. it appearing that education is a basic services, which
the local government unit is mandated to provide under RA 7160, otherwise
known as the LOCAL GOVERNMENT CODE OF i991 and RA 10931 entitled "AN
ACT PROMOTING UNIVERSAL ACCESS TO QUALITY TERTIARY EDUCATION BY
PROVIDING FOR FREE TUITION AND OTHER SCHOOL FEES IN STATE
UNIVERSITIES AND COLLEGES, LOCAL UNIVERSITIES AND COLLEGES AND
STATE-RUN TECHNICAL-VOCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS, ESTABLISHING THE
TERTIARY EDUCATION SUBSIDY AND STUDENT LOAN PROGRAM,
STRENGTHENING THE UNIFIED STUDENT FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE SYSTEM FOR
TERTIARY EDUCATION, AND APPROPRIATING FUND THEREFOR.
Viewed therefrom, this office recommends the approval of the ordinance
ATTY. MAR
A. GALLO, RSW
Acting Asst.
ty Legal Officer
Approved by:
ATTY. OSMUN
P. VTLLANUEVA, lR.
OIC-Acting City Legal Officer
Date Approved: March 25,2020
o d0 t') 8 - 2 0 -ci
t1-c o [[eg c -[d cn o-2 0 2 040 f .i.] 7 -.1'
2., - 20
tO t[ce
ltt
*
ER
R
MARY
cro
Dtvtst0i
D
,i 241-l0Q roc
q
o( - fu'2la

Republic ofihe Philippihes
SARA Z. DUTERTE
City Mayor
March 13,2020
t"ao - l0 ${
-uhrfil p.t+il,
h C, S-ection 469, Article One, Title Five,
.... . I
ri '- tlqlry''
Oi,-i'..'r
Madam: tr*\3':44' ,
\.,"-r..,
r. l','
'eM.20JO
Pursuant to Sub-SECTION 3, Paragrapl
Chapter 3, Book III and SECTION 54 of Book I Republic Act No. 7160, otherwise known
as the Local Government Code of 1991, we are furnishing you a copy of Resolution No'
Og42-2O and Ordinance No. 0198-20, both SERIES of 2020 of the SANGGUNIANG
Panlungsod, for your information, guidance and appropriate action.
Very truly yours,
^Urt6 )^, {{
CIIARITO N.'SANTOS
Secretary to the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod
(City Government Depaftment Head II)
CORRESPONDEilCE & RECORDS DIVISION
REEEIVED
MAR 17 2020
c
MARYANNfrnrvlnnoo 2.-.
ADMINISTRATIVE AIDE IV
' I>
CMO CONTACT r: 241-1000 tO€'
ffi,
iln95299702
t
flr

Office of the Sanggunieng Panlungsod
19th city Council
2nd Regular Session
SERIES of 2020
PRESENT:
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Alberto T. Ungab
Ralph O. Abella
Nilo D. Abellera
Maria Belen S. Acosta
Wilbefto E. Al-ag
Dante L. Apostol Sr.
Conrado C. Baluran
Jessica M. Bonguyan
Louie John J. Bonguyan
Pilar C. Braga
Augusto Javier G. Campos III
Jonard C. Dayap
Edgar P. Ibuyan Jr.
Edgar R. Ibuyan Sr.
Richlyn N. Justol-Baguilod
Pamela A. Librado-Morata
Diosdado Angelo Junior R. Mahipus
Jaffar U. Marohomsalic
Bonifacio E. Militar
Myrna G. L'Dalodo-Ortiz
Antoinette G. Principe-Castrodes
Mary Joselle D. Villafuerte
Jesus Joseph P. Zozobrado III
- Temporary Presiding Officer
- On Official Business
- On Domestic Emergency Leave
- OB-Attended the Comparative
Studies and Cultural Exchange
Program in Bangkok, Thailand
- On Official Business
ABSENT:
Vice Mayor SebastianZ. Dutefte
Councilor Bai Hundra Cassandra Dominique N. Advincula
Councilor Danilo C. Dayanghirang
Councilor J. Melchor B. Quitain Jr.
ORDTNANCE NO. 0198.20
SERIES of 2020
AN ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING THE CITY COLLEGE OF
DAVAO (CCD), DEFTNTNG rTS MANDATE AND
APPROPRIATING FUNDS THEREOF
I

Ord. No. 0198-20
Be it ordained by the Honorable SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod of Davao City in session
assembled, that:
ARTICLE I - GENERAL PROVTSIONS
SECTION 1. TITTE- This Ordinance shall be known as the "CHARTER OF THE
CITY COLLEGE OF DAVAO'.
SECTION 2. LOCATION -The City Government of Davao will acquire a
permanent site to which school buildings and other facilities will be constructed.
SECTION 3. PURPOSE- The primary purpose of the College is to help promote
the interest and welfare of the people of Davao by providing them access and equitable
opportunities with relevant and responsive academic and technology-driven programs for
all deprived, disadvantaged and underserued learners who will be equipped with
knowledge, skills, and values to compete and contribute meaningfully to the growth and
development of the City and to the world at a very minimal cost.
sEcrIoN 4. THE coRPoRATE PowERs oF THE COLLEGE The city
College shall constitute a body corporate which shall be endowed with the attributes and
perpetual succession of a corporation and shall possess the powers which peftains to a
local College to be exercised in conformity with the provisions of this Charter.
Fufthermore, the College shall possess the following corporate powers:
1. To have a continuous succession in its corporate name;
2. To have and use a corporate seal;
3. To exercise such powers as granted by the SANGGUNIANG panlungsod of
Davao, subject to the limitations provided in this Ordinance and other laws.
ARTICLE II - BOARD OF TRUSTEES
SECTION 1. BOARD OF TRUSTEES - The governing body and corporate
powers of the City College shall be vested in and exercised by the Board of Trustees
(BOT) composed of the following:
1. The City Mayor shall automatically be the Chairperson of the BOT. He/She
shall be the Presiding Officer at every meeting of the BOT;
2. The College President shall be the Vice Chairperson of the BOT. He shall
act as the Presiding Officer of the BOT in the absence of the Chairperson;
3. The Commission on Higher Education (CHED) Regional Director of Region
XI, as member;
4. The Chairperson of the Committee on Education, Science and Technology,
Afts and Culture of the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod as member;
5. The President of the Faculty Association as member;
6. The President of the Supreme Student Government as member;
7. The President of the Alumni Association as member;
B. The representative of the Association of Local Colleges and Universities
(ALCU) as member;
9. The Chairperson of the Davao City Chamber of Commerce and Industry,
Inc., as member;
10. A Representative from the Education sector as member;
11. The Indigenous People's Mandatory Representative (IPMR) of the
SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod, as member.

Ord. No. 0198-20
SECTION 2. The Board of Trustees shall have a Board Secretary who shall be
appointed by the Chairperson and whose term of Office shall be co-terminous with the
Chairperson. He shall likewise serue as the Executive Committee Secretary.
SECTION 3. The Members of the Board of Trustees shall have the following term
of office:
1. The Chairperson - during his/her term as City Mayor;
2. The Vice-Chairperson for a term of four (4) years, subject to
reappointment;
3. The Chairperson, Committee on Education, Science and Technology, Arts
and Culture, SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod - during his/her term as a Member
of the Sanggunian;
4. The Schools Division Superintendent (SDS) - during his/her term as SDS of
the Division of Davao City;
5. The Faculty Representative - one (1) year;
6. The Student Council Representative - one (1) year;
7. The Indigenous People's Mandatory Representative (IPMR) of the
SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod - during his/her term as IPMR.
ARTICLE III - EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
SECTION 1. THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE ThC EXCCUIIVC COMMittCC,
hereinafter referred to as the "EXECOM", is hereby created for the purpose of carrying
out and exercising the regular functions and powers of the Board of Trustees and shall
be composed of the following:
1. The President of the City College of Davao who shall be the Presiding
Officer in every meeting of the EXECOM;
2. The Chairperson of the Committee on Education, Science and Technology,
Arts and Culture of the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod;
3. The Faculty Representative of the CCD;
4. The Student Representative of the City College;
5. The Indigenous Peoples Mandatory Representative (IPMR) in the
SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod'
SECTION 2. All acts and resolutions approved by the EXECOM shall be ratified by
the Board of Trustees. Important matters affecting the administrative and/or academic
affairs of the College shall be reported to the Board of Trustees through the Chairperson.
ARTICLE IV. MEETINGS
SECTION 1. BOT REGULAR MEETINGS - The regular meeting of the Board of
Trustees shall be held at least once every quarter at the City College of Davao or at any
place in the City of Davao.
"l

Ord. No. 0198-20
SECTION 2. BOT SPECIAL MEETINGS - The special meetings of the Board of
Trustees shall be held at the City College of Davao or at any place inlhe City upon call
of the Chairperson or the majority of the members of the Board of Trustees.
SECTION 3. EXECOM MEETINGS - The meetings of the EXECOM shatt be at
the city college of Davao or at any place in the city, once every quarter.
SECTION 4. EXECOM SPECIAL MEETINGS - The special meetings of the
EXECOM shall be held at the City College of Davao or at any place in the City upon call
of the President or the majority of the EXECOM Members.
SECTION 5. NOTICES - Notices of the time and place of the meetings of the
BOT and EXECOM shall be given personally or by mail, at least 3 days before the dates
set for such meeting.
SECTION 6. OUORUM - A quorum for any meeting of the Board of Trustees
and the EXECOM shall consist of the majority of the members and and a majority of
such quorum may decide any question raised in the meeting.
SECTION 7. ORDER OF BUSINESS - The Order of Business of the meeting of
the Board of rrustees and EXECOM members shail be as follows:
1. Roll Call;
2. Call to Order;
3. Approval of the Minutes of the previous Meeting;
4. Ratification of All Acts and Resolutions Approved by the EXEcoM (only for
BOT Meetings);
5. New Business;
6. Other Matters.
SECTION 8. VOTING - Each member of the Board of Trustees or the Executive
Committee (EXECOM) shall be entitled to one (1) vote and no proxy is allowed.
ARTICLE V - QUALTFICATIONS, VACANCY,
suspENsroN / REMOVAL AN D COM PENSATTON
SECTION 1. qUALIFICATIONS - All members of the Board of Trustees shall be
citizens of the Republic of the Philippines with proven sense of responsibility, integrity
and honesty.
SECTION 2. VACANCY - In case of vacanry in the Board of Trustees by reason
of resignation, removal from office, death or any other incapacity of one or more of its
members, such vacancy shall be filled-up by the appointment of
'the
Chairperson of the
Board of Trustees.
SECTION 3. SUSPENSION AND REMOVAL - A member of the BOT may be
suspended or removed from office upon a majority vote of the BOT members foi tne
following causes:
1. Incapacity;
2. Incompetence;
3. Dishonesty;
4. Conviction of a crime involving moral turpitude;
5. Any act detrimental to the interest and welfare of the City College of
Davao.

Ord. No. 0198-20
SECTION 4. @
- The members of the Board of Trustees/
EXECOM shall serve without compensation except for a reasonable allowance or per
diem as may be authorized by the Board of Trustees and as allowed by law.
ARTICLE VI - POWERS AND DUTIES
SECTION 1. POWERS AND DUTIES - Subject to existing laws, the following
are the powers and duties of the Board of Trustees, in addition to the general
administrative and corporate powers:
1. To enact rules and regulations not contrary to law as may be necessary to
carry out the purpose and function of the College;
2. To receive and appropriate all pecuniary matters as may be provided, for
the support of the College in the manner it may determine, in its
discretion, to carry out the purpose and functions of the College;
3. To receive in legacy trusts, gifts, and donation of real and personal
propefties of all kinds, to administer and dispose the same when necessary
for the benefit of the College, subject to limitations and instructions, of the
donors, if any.
4. To fix the tuition fees and other necessary school charges, such as but not
limited to matriculation fees, graduation fees, and laboratory fees after due
consultation with the involved sectors:
a. Such fees and charges including government subsidies and other
income generated by the College shall constitute a special trust fund
and shall be deposited in any authorized government depository
bank, and all interests accruing thereof shall form paft of the same
fund for the use of the College.
b. Any income generated by the college from tuition fees and other
charges, as well as from the operation of auxiliary seruices and land
grants, shall be retained by the college and may be disbursed by the
BOT for instruction, research, extension, or other programs or
projects of the College and that all fiduciary fees shall be disbursed
for the specific purpose for which they are collected.
c. If, for reasons beyond its control, the College shall not be able to
pursue any project which funds have been appropriated and
allocated under its approved program of expenditures, the BOT may
authorize the use of said funds for any reasonable purpose, which in
its discretion may be necessary and urgent for the attainment of the
objectives and goals of the College.
5. To adopt and implement a scheme of payment of tuition fees and other
school fees for greater access to poor but deserving students;
6. To approve the curricula, institutional programs and rules of discipline
drawn by the administrative and academic councils;

Ord. No. 0198-20
7. To set policies on the admission and graduation of students;
B. To award honorary degrees upon persons in recognition of outstanding
contribution in the field of education, public seruice, arts, sciences and
technology or in any field of specialization within the academic competence
of the College and to authorize the award of certificates of completion of
non-degree and non-traditional courses;
9. To establish research, extension and production centers and others where
such will promote the development of the College;
10.To appoint or designate upon the recommendation of the president of the
college, the Vice Presidents, program Heads, Directors, Heads of offices,
faculty members, and other officials and employees;
11.To provide fellowship/scholarship to qualified personnel and students in the
College;
tZ.To fix and adjust salaries of faculty members, administrative officials and
employees subject to the provisions of the revised compensation and
classification system and other pertinent budget compensation laws
governing hours of seruice;
13.To authorize the construction or repair of its buildings, machineries,
equipment and other facilities and the purchase and acquisition of real and
personal propefties, including necessary supplies, materials and
equipment. Purchase and other transactions entered by the College,
through the BOT, shall be exempt from all taxes and duties;
14.To delegate any of its powers and duties provided hereinabove to the
President and/or other officials of the College as it may deem appropriate
so as to expedite the administration of the affairs of the college;
15.To authorize an external management audit of the institution and to
institute reforms, including academic and structural changes, on the basis
of the audit results and recommendations;
16.To collaborate with other governing boards of Local Colleges and
Universities (LCUs) within the region, under the superuision of the
Commission on Higher Education (CHED) and in consultation with the
Department of Budget and Management, the restructuring of the College
to become more efficient, relevant, productive, and competitive;
17.To enter into joint ventures with business and industry for the profitable
development and management of the economic assets of the college, the
proceeds from which will be used for the development and strengthening
of the College;

Ord. No. 0198-20
18.To develop consoftia and other forms of linkages with local government
units, institutions and agencies, both public and private, local and foreign,
in fuftherance of the purposes and objectives of the College;
19.To develop academic arrangements for the institution's capability building
with appropriate institutions or agencies and to appoint experts/specialists
as consultants, visiting or exchange professors, scholars, researchers, as
the case may be;
20.To set up the adoption of modern and innovative modes of transmitting
knowledge such as the use of information technology, the dual system,
open learning, community laboratory, etc., for the promotion of greater
access to higher education;
21.To establish policy guidelines and procedures for participative decisionmaking and transparency within the institution;
22.To privatize, if most advantageous to the institution, management of nonacademic seruices such as health, food, building, grounds or property
maintenance and such other similar activities; and
23.To extend the term of the President of the college beyond the age of
retirement but not later than the age of seventy (70), whose performance
has been unanimously rated as outstanding and upon unanimous
recommendation by the search committee for the president.
ARTICLE VII - SEARCH COMMITTEE FOR THE PRESIDENT;
MINIMUM QUALIFICATIONS AND VACANCY IN THE OFFICE OF THE
PRESTDENT
SECTION 1. CONSTITUTION OF SEARCH COMMITTEE The Board of
Trustees shall constitute a Search Committee for the President (SCP) which shall be
composed of representatives from the Civil Service Commission (CSC), the Academe,
Davao City Chamber of Commerce and Industry Inc. (DCCCII), the Association of Local
Colleges and Universities (ALCU) and the Commission on Higher Education (CHED). The
SCP shall elect a Chairman and a Vice-Chairman from among themselves.
SECTION 2. FUNDS - The Board of Trustees shall appropriate adequate funds
to finance the activities of the SCP.
SECTION 3. PROCEDURE FOR THE SEARCH - The Search Committee, so
constituted, may devise its own rules and procedure for the search.
sEcrroN 4. NorIcE oF vAcANcy within ten (10) days upon its
constitution, the SCP shall cause the publication of the notice of vacancy for President in
a newspaper of local or general circulation and by posting in conspicuous places in the
city. The publication shall contain provisions for invitation of applicants and the deadline
for submission of applications.
SECTION 5. QUALIFICATIONS FOR PRESIDENCY - The President of the City
College of Davao must be a holder of an appropriate earned doctoral degree and must
have at least five (5) years of relevant administrative experience.

Page B of 18
Ord. No. 0198-20
SECTION 6. SELECTION OF QUALIFIED CANDIDATES- Within a period of thirty
(30) days after the deadline of submission of applications, the Search Committee shall
screen the applicants and select therefrom the three (3) most qualified candidates within
twenty-four Qfl hours after the selection.
SECTION 7. APPOINTMENT OF THE PRESIDENT - The Board of Trustees
shall appoint the President from the three (3) most qualified candidates submitted by
the SCP.
ARTICLE VIII - COLLEGE OFFICIALS
SECTION 1. The following are the Officers of the CCD:
1. The College President
The President, who is the Chief Executive Officer of the College,
shall be appointed by the Board of Trustees for a term of four (4) years
and may be reappointed upon approval of the Board.
Leadership in the college is vested on the President and he shall be
the ex-officio head of the College faculty and personnel in all offices.
The general superuision of all academic, administrative and research
and extensions of the College shall be under the Office of the President.
The President shall carry out the general policies laid down by the
Board of Trustees and shall have exclusive power to act, direct, and assign
the details of executive action.
The President determines and prepares the agenda of all meetings
of the Board of Trustees, the Academic Council, and the Administrative
Council; provided, however, that any member of the BOT shall have the
right to suggest any matter for inclusion in the agenda.
He/She shall preside at commencement exercises and other public
affairs of the College, and confer such degree and honors as are granted
by the BOT. All diplomas and certificates issued by the College shall be
signed by him, the respective Program Heads, and the Registrar.
He/She shall be the official link of communication between the
faculty, employees and students of the College on one hand, and the
Board of Trustees, on the other.
He/She shall appoint competent and qualified persons to fill all
vacancies and new positions. He/She shall have the authority to Rll
vacancies temporarily and to make such arrangements as are necessary to
meet all emergencies that may occur between the meetings of the BOT so
that the work of the College will not be impeded.
In the exigency of the service, he/she shall have the power to
transfer faculty members and employees from one program to another,
subject to confirmation by the Board of Trustees, and in accordance with
law.
He/She shall have the authority to recommend to the BOT the
change of leave status of the faculty from teacher's leave to cumulative
leave and vice-versa.

Ord. No. 0198-20
The President shall hold all the officers, faculty and emproyees of
the College responsible to the full discharge of their respective duties;
when necessary and in the interest of public service, he/she shall, after
consultation with the Dean or Head concerned, initiate the appropriate
proceedings of the separation from service of the erring faculty member or
administrative suppoft personnel.
He/She shall submit an annual repoft to the Board highlighting the
accomplishments of the past year and the needs of the current year.
He/She shall also present to the Board the proposed annual budget of the
College.
He/She shall execute and sign on behalf of the College all contracts,
deeds, and other documents necessary for the proper conduct of the
business in the College. However, in recurring undertakings and
transactions where the action is viftually ministerial, and the conditions and
terms for which have been fixed in accordance with the College's existing
regulation and general laws of the land, he/she may direct through
appropriate written instructions that approval in specified cases be made in
his/her behalf by the officers of administration or heads of college's offices
or units, subject to such safeguards as he/she may impose.
He/She shall have general responsibility over the enforcement of
discipline in the College and maintenance of satisfactory academic
standards in all program units.
He/She may disapprove or suggest modification on any action or
resolution of any college faculty or administrative SECTION or both, if in his
judgment, the general interest of the College so requires. In the exercise
of such authority, the President shall communicate in writing his/her
decision to the body concerned, stating the reasons for his action.
Thereafter, he/she shall accordingly inform the Board of Trustees.
He/She may invite, from time to time, eminent scholars and other
persons who are experts in their chosen fields to conduct seminars or a
SERIES thereof. He/She may authorize the payment of honoraria for such
seruice in accordance with existing policies.
He/She shall have such other powers as elsewhere provided by this
Ordinance and CHED Memorandum Order (CMO) 32, SERIES of 2006, or as
may be authorized by the Board. He/She may delegate in writing his/her
specific functions to any other officer of the College.
He/She shall create or abolish depaftments or offices seruing other
production-related functions, each to be headed by a Program Head or
Director, whom he shall appoint or designate and confirmed by the Board.
He/She shall be authorized, in case of his/her absence, to designate
a ranking officer of the administration to act as Officer-in-Charge of the
Office of the President, who shall carry out the management of the College
affairs in his/her name according to his/her instructions and the policies of
the Board of Trustees.

Ord. No. 0198-20
2. The Vice President
The Vice President for Academic Affairs (vpAA) shall be
appointed/designated by the president and confirmed by the Bor.
He shall be directly responsible to the president for carrying out all
the education policies, programs, and projects of the college, and
for superuising curricular, instructional, and other academic
activities of the college. He/she shall preside in meetings of the
Academic council in the absence of the president. The duties and
responsibilities of the VPAA are the following:
1. Assist the President in the day-to-day operation of the
College, particularly, in the management and/or superuision
of Heads of the Academic program Units (ApUs), Library
seruices, student Academic Records, and other academic
functions;
2. Advise the President on matters pertaining to academic
affairs of the College;
3. Evaluate work performance of all Heads of ApUs, chief
Librarian, Registrar, and any other Head of office under
his/her superuision and recommend to the president
appropriate personnel action;
4. sign as recommending approval, and/or initial on requisitions,
vouchers, payrolls, travel requests, leaves, appointments and
designations, contracts, memoranda of agreement and sign
daily time records, basic communications, and similar papers
and ceftifies expenditures/expenses incurred by his/her
department or office;
5. Evaluate and recommend development plans or projects
submitted by all APU Heads, Registrar, Librarian and other
offices under his/her superuision for inclusion in the annual
institutional budget proposal;
6. Formulate and submit to the president for approval of the
Board of Trustees, the guidelines and policies rerative to
academic programs and other activities of the College;
7. Review and submit to the president institutional program
action plans and other similar reports;
B. Review and submit to the president
accomplishments of every APUs;
repofts of
9. Review the faculty profile of every ApU and recommend
action plan for faculty development and evaluate credentials
of faculty members recommended for attendance to
seminars, trainings and conferences;
A

Ord. No. 0198-20
10. Review the curricular programs and see to it that all general
education courses offered are equivalent in description and
credit units;
11.Review the faculty loading, faculty productivity and studentfaculty ratio;
12.Sign as recommending approval on the hiring of contractual
and/or emergency personnel and part-time instructors;
l3.Coordinate with other officials of the College in order to
achieve the institution's academic goals;
14.Act as Chairman ex-officio of all special academic committees
of the College; and
15. Perform such other duties and functions that may be
assigned by the President from time to time.
B. The Vice President for Administration (VPA) shall be appointed by
the President and confirmed by the Board of Trustees. He shall be
directly responsible to the President for administrative and financial
operations and preside in meetings of the Administrative Council
(ADCO) in the absence of the President. The duties and
responsibilities of the VPA are the following:
1. Assist the President in the day-to-day operation of the
College particularly in the management and/or superuision of
Heads of the Human Resource, Student Affairs and its
Suppoft Seruices, Properties, Computer Laboratories, Director
of Budget, and other offices under his/her superuision;
2. Advise the President on matters pertaining to administrative,
financial management and external affairs of the College;
3. Evaluate work performance of all Heads of the Human
Resource, Student Affairs and its Suppott Seruices,
Propefties, Computer Laboratories, Director of Budget, and
other offices under his/her supervision and recommend to the
President appropriate personnel action;
4. Sign as recommending approval on all requests, vouchers,
payrolls, travels, leaves, appointments and designations,
contracts, memoranda of agreement and sign daily time
records, basic communications, and similar papers and ceftify
expenditures or expenses incurred by his/her office and all
offices under his/her superuision;
5. Prepare and recommend to the President, for approval of the
Board the guidelines and policy proposals relative to
administrative, student support services, and financial
manners;
6. Prepare and recommend systems and procedures for the
smooth coordination among offices and seruices and for the
effective and efficient pefformance of different tasks and
functions;

Ord. No. 0198-20
7. Perform such other functions that may be assigned to
him/her by the President.
C. The Vice President for Research & Extension (VPRE) shall be
appointed by the President and confirmed by the BOT. He/She shall
be directly responsible to the President for research and extension
and other development projects. The duties and responsibilities of
the VPRE are the general superuision and coordination of all units
under his/her office. These include the following:
1. Assist the President in the day-to-day operation of the
College particularly in the management and/or superuision of
all Research and Extension Seruices Initiatives.
2. Advise the President on matters pertaining to research and
development and extension seruices of the College;
3. Evaluate work performance of all Coordinators under his/her
superuision and recommend to the President appropriate
personnel action;
4. Sign as recommending approval on all requests, vouchers,
payrolls, travels, leaves, appointments and designations,
contracts, memoranda of agreement and sign daily time
records, basic communications, and similar papers and
certifled expenditures or expenses incurred by his/her
department or office;
5. Prepare and recommend to the President, for approval of the
Board of Trustees, the guidelines and policy proposals
relative to research and extension matters;
6. Prepare and recommend systems and procedures for the
smooth coordination among units/divisions and for the
effective and efficient performance of different tasks and
functions;
7. Perform such other functions that may be assigned to
him/her by the President.
The Term of Office of the VPAA, VPA and VPRE shall be
co-terminus with that of the President without prejudice to the revocation
of their designation before the expiration of their respective terms.
3. The Secretary of the College
The Secretary of the College shall be appointed by the President and
confirmed by the Board of Trustees. He shall act as the College Secretary.
The College President, however, upon his discretion, may appoint a
personal secretary as a member of his/her personal staff.
He/She shall also be the Board Secretary and shall keep all the
records and the minutes of the proceedings of the meetings of the Board
of Trustees and shall communicate to the Chairperson, Vice Chairperson
and members of the Board of Trustees notice of all regular meetings,
special sessions and other undertakings of the Board.

Ord. No. 0198-20
SECTION 2. SUSPENSION AND REMOVAL - The aforementioned officers may
be suspended or removed from office by a majority vote of the Board of Trustees for
incapacity, incompetence, dishonesty, conviction of a crime involving moral turpitude or
any act detrimental to the college, in accordance with applicable laws.
ARTICLE IX - FACULTY
SECTION 1. COMPOSITION - The Faculty of the City College of Davao (CCD)
shall be composed of Deans, Professors, Instructors, Regular Lecturers or the Teaching
Personnel of CCD. The Deans shall be the heads of the various colleges, who shall be
appointed by the Board of Trustees, from among the nominees of the President of the
CCD.
SECTION 2. THE MEMBERS OF THE FACULTY - The Members of the Faculty
of the College shall be subject and/or covered by CHED and Civil Seruice laws, rules and
regulations.
ARTICLE X - NON.TEACHING PERSONNEL
SECTION 1. COMPOSITION - The non-teaching personnel shall be composed
of the City College of Davao employees performing non-teaching functions or those not
included in the enumeration under SECTION 1, Article VIII hereof.
ARTICLE XI - STUDENT
SECTION 1. STUDENT ADMISSION - The City College of Davao shall give
preference in the admission of student to bona fide residents of Davao City, graduates of
ALS, Senior High School Late Afternoon Program (SHS LAP), IPs, subject to the
qualifications/rules of admissions as may be approved by the Board of Trustees;
provided, however, that no students shall be denied admission to the College by reason
of age, sexuality, nationality, religious belief or political affiliation.
ARTICLE XII - COLLEGE COUNCIL
SECTION 1. ACADEMIC COUNCIL - There shall be an Academic Council with
the President of the College as Chairperson and all members of the instructional staff
with the rank of not lower than Assistant Professors as members (Republic Act No. 8292
Sec. 10).
The Academic Council shall have the power to review and recommend curricular
offerings and rules of discipline of the college subject to the approval of the Board of
Trustees. It shall set the requirements for admission of students as well as for
graduation and the conferment of degrees subject to review and/or approval of the
Board of Trustees, through the College President.
SECTION 2. ADMINISTRATM COUNCIL - There shall be an Administrative
Council consisting of the President as Chairperson, the Vice-Presidents, Program Heads
and Directors as members.
The Administrative Council shall review and recommend to the Board of Trustees
policies governing the administration, management, and development planning of the
college subject to review and/or approval by the Board of Trustees, through the College
President.

Page t4 of 18
Ord. No. 0198-20
ARTICTE XIII - ORGANIZATIONAT STRUCTURE
SECTION l.
- The Organizational Structure
of the City Government of Davao shall include the City College of Davao which shall
operate under the charge of the City Mayor, structure of which is reflected as follows:
$Al,l0Ut'llAllS
PAltLt]i{0$00
CffiCOLLEGE
OF OAVAO
0il
AOilIIIISIRAIOR'S
0tFtcE
clil
ptAliiltt0
cil
BUOCEI
cm
AomuilfiflI
CITY
tEOAI
clTY
]TEA$URER
crfl
A$$tst0R
c[1
RIOI$IRAR
0Ff tct
CITY
llEATTtl
CITY GSO
c$$00
flTY
lJETERIIIARIAII
OTFIE
cfiY
ASfiCUtIUit$l
0fttcE
cril
llAYOR
cll0
cllI
l{RM
ct0
cmc00P.
0lttv'T
sFlct
0n
tltR0

Ord. No. 0198-20
CITY COLLEGE OF DAVAO
lffi
Administrative Council
COLLEGE PRESIDENT
BOT Sccretary
Academic Council
College Sccretary
Director, Q0allty Auurafica
vlc. Prgldlnt
Research ond Extension
Vice Preiid.nt
vlca Pr.tld.nt
Administtdion
Acodemrc Aflors
I -;-;"
lolnn H.d
As t4l!4
Proan6 H..l
xJC
lmsrrrrrcl I
i tPtd lt
Proann tldd
I lrJfd
PElril tl..d
lfvitd
(ildtL.r&
Latitre
ffir
I
I
I
Carhicr
c@din.tffr
C@di6rlor!
€ogrirh tqriwqe Stu+
H
lr
I
FtiprN
Faculty
Students
l
)
)
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
lNna.l
OCrcr
Olftff

Ord. No. 0198-20
SECTION 2. PLANTILLA POSITIONS - To ensure the provision of direct and
efficient services to the students and faculty, particularly on academic performance,
records and seruices, health, safety and welfare, the following plantilla positions are
hereby created for the first year of operations:
ARTICLE XIV - MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
SECTION 1.
- The Mayor shall constitute an
Interim Board of Trustees on its initial operation, which shall carry out the powers and
duties as stipulated in Afticle VI of this Ordinance.
The Interim Board of Trustees shall be composed of the following:
1. The City Mayor as the Chairperson;
Position Title
SG
No. of
Items
College Librarian II
College Librarian I
Registrar I
Nurse II
Human Resource Officer II
Laboratory Inspector II
ProperU Custodian
B
Accountant II
Guidance Counselor I
Cashier I
Clerk II
B
Professor III
Professor II
Professor I
Associate Professor V
Associate Professor IV
Associate Professor III
2t
Associate Professor II
Associate Professor II
Assistant Professor IV
1B
Assistant Professor III
L7
Assistant Professor II
Assistant Professor I
Instructor III
Instructor II
Instructor I
L2
TOTAL ->
2. The First College President;
SUPPORT PERSONNEL
TOTAL.>
FACULTY

Ord. No. 0198-20
3. The Regional Director of the Commission on Higher Education (CHED)-
Region XI;
4. The Chairperson of the Committee on Education, Science and Technology,
Afts and Culture of the SANGGUNIANG panlungsod;
5. Representative from the Education Sector; and
6. The Indigenous People's Mandatory
Representative (IPMR) of the
The Interim Board of Trustees, however, shall be deemed automatically dissolved
once the regular Board of Trustees has been duly constituted.
SECTION 2.APPOINTMENT OF THE FIRST COLLEGE PRESIDENT - The
City Mayor, as the Local Chief Executive, may elect to appoint a College president who is
deemed competent and qualified to manage the operation of the City College with the
concurrence of the Interim Board of Trustees.
SECTION 3. BOARD OF VISITORS - The City Mayor, Vice-Mayor and the
Members of the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod ng Davao shall constitute the Board of Visitors
of the city college of Davao with the following duties and functions:
1. To visit the College at any time they may deem proper;
2. To inspect and evaluate the Book of Accounts, properties, program
of study, discipline and state of finances of the College;
3. To make reports and recommendations to the SANGGUNIANG
Panlungsod relative to the exercise of its duties and functions.
SECTION 4. REPORTS - The Board of Trustees shall file with the Commission
on Higher Education, the City Mayor and the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod, an annual
detailed report of the progress, condition and needs of the coilege.
SECTION 5. SUPERVISION AND REGULATION - The Commission on Higher
Education (CHED) through its duly authorized representatives shall exercise reasonable
superuision and regulation over the College in accordance with existing rules and
regulations,
SECTION 6. FUNDING The City Government of Davao shall upon
determination of the required funds, appropriate the same to fund the first year of
operation of the City College.
The City Government of Davao shall continuously appropriate funds for the
operation and maintenance of the College, in addition to the miscellaneous fees which
may be, from time to time, determined by the Board of Trustees, provided, however,
that any or all funds allotted and accruing to the College shall be put and kept under its
name and account, and provided fufther, that any surplus or unappropriated amount at
the end of each year shall remain with the coffers of the City College of Davao.

SECTION 7. SEPARABILITY CLAUSE - If any provision of this ordinance is
held invalid or unconstitutional, any other provision not so affected shall continue to be
valid and effective.
SECTION g. REPEALING CLAUSE - Any city ordinances and its rules and
regulations or any part thereof, which are inconsistent with any of the provisions of this
Ordinance, is hereby repealed or amended accordingly.
SECTION g. EFFECTIVITY - This ordinance shall take effect upon its approval.
ENACTED, on the 14th day of January, 2O2O by a majority vote of all the
Members of the Sanggunian, there being a quorum.
CERTIFIED CORRECT:
For and in the absence of the Secretary:
k-/
MA. THERESdI. REYES
Acting Secretary to the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod
(Local Legislative Staff Officer IV),
Ord. No. 0198-20
2l l,lA,R m'
2020
- City t"til
ATTESTED:
A
. UNGAB
ng Vice Mayor
Temporary Presiding Officer
mtar/kjtq
. LOPEZ
APPROVED
z.
ATTY
ATTESTED:
City Admin
r€