THE 2OO5 REVENUE CODE
OF THE CITY OF DAVAO
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ORDINANCE Number and Title . .
CHAPIER 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Title
Scope and Application . .
Words and Phrases Not Herein Expressly Defined
Rules of Construction
Definitions of Terms
CIIAPIER 2z ClfrI TAXES
Article One. Real Property Tax
Definitions
Imposition of the Basic Real Property Tax .
Additional Levy on Real Property for the Special
Education Fund (SEF)
SECTION 1
SECTION 2
SECTION 3
SECTION 4
SECTION 5
SECTION 6
SECTION 7
SECTION 18
SECTION 19
SECTION 8
SECTION 9
Exemptions to the Imposition
SECTION 10
Time of Payment
SECTION 16
Collection and Distribution of Proceeds
SECTION 17
Administrative Provisions
4l
4l
4l
4l
Q.aatin.n 1 I
Ta-x Discount fo.r Advanced and Prornpt Payment .
+2
SECTION 12
Appraisal of Real Property .
SECTION 13
Declaration of Real Property by the Owner or
Administrator
SECTION 14
Duty of Persons Acquiring Real Property or
Making Improvement Thereon
SECTION 15
Declaration of Real Property by the City Assessor .
Special Provisions .
.
Interest on Unpaid Real Property Tax . .
Penalties for Omission of Property from
assessment or Tax Rolls by Officers and other
+9
SECTION 20
Acts

SECTION 21
Penalties for Delaying Assessment of Real Property
and Assessment Appeals
SECTION 22
Penalties for Failure to Dispose the Delinquent
Real Property at Public Auction
Periods within which to collect Real Property Taxes
Filing of assessment Appeals
Organization, Powers, Duties, and Functions of
the City Board of Assessment Appeals
Meetings and Expenses of the City Board of
Assessment Appeals
Action by the City Board of Assessment Appeals . .
Effect of Appeal on the Payment of ReaI Property
Tax .
Article Tlro. Tax on Idle Lands
Ta,x on trdle Lands . . .
Coverage
Exemption . . .
Listing of Idle Lands by the Assessor .
Collection and Accrual of Proceeds . . .
Artlcle Three. Tax on transfer of Real Property Ownershlp
Tax on Transfer of Real Property Ownership
Exemption
Time of Payment
Administrative Provisions
Article Four. Tax on Prlnting and Publication
Tor on Frinting and Publication
Exemption . . .
Time of Payment . .
Article Flve. Franchise Tax
Ta-x on Sand, Gravel and Other Quar"r5, Rewurces
Issuance of Permit
Exemption . . .
Time and Place of Payment . .
Surcharge for Late Payment . .
Interest on Unpaid Tax.
Sharing of Proceeds . .
Periodic Inspection by City Oflicials
Mandatory Requirement
Authority to Impound Vehicles Carrying Extracted
Materials Without Permit
Printing of Quarry Receipts
Issuance of Quarry Receipts
SECTION 23
SECTION 24
SECTION 25
SECTION 26
SECTION 27
SECTION 28
Seetion 29
SECTION 30
SECTION 31
SECTION 32
SECTION 33
SECTION 34
SECTION 35
SECTION 36
SECTION 37
SECTION 38
SECTION 39
SECTION 40
SECTION 41
SECTION 42
SECTION 43
SECTION 44
SECTION 45
SECTION 46
SECTION 47
SECTION 48
$eetion 49
SECTION 50
SECTION 51
SECTION 52
SECTION 53
SECTION 54
SECTION 55
tcZ
s
Franchise Ta-x
Exemption
Time of Pavment
Article Six. Tax on Sand, Gravel and Other Quarry Resources

SECTION 56
Inspection and Issuance of Certification by the
City Engineer's Office
SECTION 57
Irnpcsition of Fees
Article Seven. Professional Tax
*
SECTION 58
SECTION 59
Seetion 6O
SECTION 61
SECTION 62
SECTION 63
SECTION 64
SECTION 65
SECTION 66
SECTION 67
SECTION 68
SECTION 69
SECTION 70
SECTION 71
SECTION 72
SECTION 73
SECTION 74
SECTION 75
SECTION 76
SECTION 79
Secti,on 8O
SECTION 81
SECTION 82
SECTION 83
SECTION 84
SECTION 85
SECTION 86
Professional Tax
Coverage
E'vamnfinn
!-rv^^^lJ
uv
Payment of Tax . . .
Time and Place of Payment
Admini strative Provision s
Artlcle tlght. Amuserrent Tax on Admlsstron
Imposition of Tax for Amusement Places and
Activities
Manner of Computing Tax
Form of Tickets; Their Registration . .
Time and Place of Payment
Verification of Tickets . . . .
Filing of Performance Bonds; Forfeiture Thereof
Filingof Return
Imposition of Tax
Exemption
Time and Place of Payment .
Annual Registration Sticker
Article Ten. Graduated Tax on Business
Imposition of Tax
Imposition of Tax
CarDealers...
SpareParts...
Services
Presumptive Income Level
Tax on Newly-Started Business
Artlcle Eleven. Situs of the Tax
Situs of the Tax .
Article lbelve. Payment of Buslness Tax
Payrnent of Business Ta.x
Accrual of Payment. . . . .
Time of Payment . .
Administrative Provisions
Artlctre Thlrtee.n. Tax on Peddl,ers
Tax on Peddlers .
Exemption . .
Time of Payment
Article Nine. Annual Fixed Tax for Every Delivery Vehicle, Truck or Van of
Manufacturers or Producers, wholesalers of, Dealers or Retailers in
Certain Products (Amended Provision)
71.
7l
7l
7l
SECTION 77
SECTION 78
Exemptions

SECTION 87
SECTION 88
SECTION 89
SECTION 90
SECTION 91
SECTION 92
SECTION 93
SECTION 94
SECTION 95
SECTION 96
SECTION 97
SECTION 98
SECTION 99
SECTION 1OO
SECTION 101
SECTION 102
SECTION 103
SECTION 104
SECTION 105
SECTION 106
SECTION 1O7
SECTION 108
SECTION 109
SECTION 110
SECTION 111
SECTION 112
SECTION 113
SECTION 114
SECTION 115
SECTION 116
Article f'ourteen. Tax on Mining Operations
Ta.x on Mining Operations
Situs of the Tax
Exclusion
Timeof Payment......
Administrative Provision
Article Fifteen. Tax on Forest Products
Tax on Forest Products
Time of Payment
CHAFTER 3: PERMIT AND REGULATORY FEES
Article One. Mayor's Permit Fee on Business
Mayor's Permit Fee .
On Business Subject to Graduated Fixed Taxes
Time and Manner of Payment
Imposition of Fees . . .
Licensing the Cockpits
Registration of Cockpits
Time and Manner of Payment .
Administrative Frovisions . . . .
Applicability Clause
Arttele Three." Speclal Perrnlt Fee for Gockflghttng
Imposition of Fees
Exclusion. . . .
Time and Manner of Payment . .
Rules and Regulations in the lssuance of Special.
Permits
Administrative Provisions . . .
Applicability Clause . .
Imposition of Annual Fees
Exemption
Time of Payment
Artlcle Five. Permit Fee on Pedalled Tricycle
Who Are Authorized to Operate
Rules and Regulations in the Registration of
Pedalled Tric5rcle .
Imposition of Fees
Display of Plate Number and Carrying a Photostat
Copy of Registration
Compliance of A11 Traffic Rules and Regulation . . .
Administrative Provisions . . .
Rules and Regulations on Certain Establishments
Article Two. Permlt Fee for Cockplt
Orvners/ Operators/ Licensees/ Promoters and Cockpit Personnel
Article Four. Fees on Transportation Businesa and Golf Cart Owners
SECTION 117

SECTION 118
SECTION 119
Q.an*inn 1CfI
SECTION 121
SECTION 122
Q,-or.tinn 1D?
SECTION 124
SECTION 125
Q.ar.fir-n I D6.
SECTION 127
Penalty
Time of Payment
Adrninistrative Provisions . .
Article Six. Registration and Immunization of Dogs
Imposition of Fee. . . .
Administrative Provisions
Tirne of Payment
Imposition of Fee
Time of Payment . .
Adrni.nistrative Pro+,isions . .
Penalty
Admini.strative Prorrision , .
Assessment Fees
Filing Fee (Non-Refundable)
Certifications
Establishment of Line and Grade
Schedul,e of Building Permit Fees
Ancillary Structure
Sanitary/ Plumbing Permit Fees
Fencing Permit Fees
Construction of Sidewalks (sq.m.)
Paved or Cemented Areas
Use of Streets and Sidewalks as Permitted . . . . . .
Demolition/Moving of building/Structures Fees . .
Certificate of Use or Occupancy
Change in Use/Occupancy
Annual Building Inspection Fees
Fines
Imposition of Fines
Surcharge/Penalty . . . .
Exemptions .
Penal Provision
Imposition of Fee
Time of Payment . .
Administrative Provisions . .
Article Ten. Mechanical Permit Fees
Irnpositi,on of Fee
Administrative Provisions
Article Eleven. Sign Permit Fee
Inaposition of Fee
Exemption to the Imposition of Fee
Issuance of Sign Permit
Effectivity of Sign Permit
Extension of Sign Permits
Article Seven. Fees of Impounding Astray Anlmals
Article Eight. Building and Other Construction Permit Fees (OCBOI
t02
t07
tt2
tt4
t17
Lt7
Sectien
SECTION
SECTION
SECTION
SECTION
Secti,on
SECTION
SECTION
SECTION
SECTION
SECTION
SECTION
SECTION
SECTION
SECTION
SECTION
SECTION
SECTION
SECTION
SECTION
SECTION
12&
t29
t32
r37
t4l
r42
t43
t46
Artlcle iline. Electrlcal and Electronlcs Installation Permlt and Inspection
Fees
SECTION 149
SECTION 150
SECTION 151
SECTION 152
SECTION 153
SECTION
SECTION
SECTION
SECTION
SECTION

SECTION
SECTION
S.az.tinn
SECTION
SECTION
SECTION
SECTION
SECTION
SECTION
SECTION
SECTION
SECTION 165
SECTION 166
SECTION 167
Sect-ion 168
SECTION 169
SECTION 170
SECTION 171
SECTION 172
SECTION 173
SECTION 174
SECTION 175
SECTION 176
Q.aatinn 177
SECTION 178
Imposition of Fee
SECTION 179
Time of Payment
Marking Requirements
Restricted Areas
h4onitcriing Ofliciat
Signs and Sign Structures, in General
Removal
Penalty
Imposition of Fee
Exemptions
Timeof Payment......
Ad ministrative Provision
Imposition of Fee
Time of Payment . .
Administrative Provisions
Permit
Hazardous Inflammable Liquid
trrnposition of Fees
t62
t64
tL7
11&
t25
t25
t25
t26
r26
t26
t29
t29
r29
r29
t29
r32
t32
t32
Arttc.tre Twe-[ve, Percrlt Fee for Zontng/Iocatlocral Clear*nce
Article Thirteen. Permit Fee for Temporary Use of roads, Streets,
Sidewalks, Alleys, Patlos, Plazas and Playgrounds
Imposition of Fee .
Time of Payment
Administrative Provisions
Artlcle Foutteen. Permit Fee for the Storage of Flammable and
Combustible Materlals
Arttcl,e Ftftee+- Reg!iletfon and Fees for the eqnve.ya-nce ol Tr*ssport*tlon
of Any Explosives or hazardous Inflammable Liquids within the Limits of
the City of Davao
Article Sixteen. Fee on Ambulant and ltinerant amusement Operators
Article Seventeen. Permit Fee on Circus and Other Parades
SECTION 180
SECTION 181
SECTION 182
SECTION 183
SECTION 184
SECTION 185
Arttcle Eighteen. Fee for Seallng and Licensing of trIeights and Measures
Imposition of Fees
Time and Manner of Payment
F'.rrerrrnfinn
-------r
Administrative Provisions
Implementing Agency
Sealing and Testing of Instruments of Weights and
Measures
Imposition of Fees
Payment of Fees and Surcharge
Place of Payment . . .
Exemptions . .
t87
Administrative Provisions

SECTION 191
Fraudulent Practices Relative to Weights and
Measures
Penalties
L3+
t34
L37
L37
L37
L40
140140
t43
Qantian
l Oa
Article Nineteen. Registration and Transfer Fees on Large Cattle
SECTION 197
SECTION 198
SECTION 199
SECTION 200
SECTION 201
SECTION 2O2
SECTION 203
SECTION 204
SECTION 205
SECTION 206
SECTION 207
SECTION 193
SECTION 194
SECTION 195
SECTION 196
SECTION 210
SECTION 21 1
SECTION 21"2
SECTION 213
SECTION 214
SECTION 215
SECTION 2 L6
SECTION 217
SECTION 2tr8
SECTION 219
SECTION 220
Imposition of Fee
Time and Manner of Payment
Adrninistrative Provisions .
Applicability Clause . . . . . . .
Article-T\renty. Permit Fee for Brcavatlon
Imposition of Fee
Filing of Application
Conditions in the Permit
Exercise of Supervision
Excavation Affecting Adjoining Properties
Excavation Affecting Adjorning Structures
Appropriate Guards and Markers
Prohibition. . .
Private roads, Sidewalks and Passageways
Time and Manner of Payment
Administrative Provisions
Irnpositicn of Fees
Franchise and Other Fees
Administrative Provisions
SECTION 209
Filing of Application . . .
Article lbenty-Trro. Permit Fee for Road, Right of way Clearance
Article T\renty-One. Permit Fee for Drainage Clearance
SECTION 208
Imposition of Fee
Imposition of Fees . . .
Filing of Application . .
Article lbenty-Three. Permit Fee on Film Making
Imposition of Fee
Time of Payment
E:cemption
Imposition of Fees
Time and Manner of Payment
Administrative Provisions
Article T\nenty-Five. Permlt Fees on Tricycle Operatlon
Artlcle TVenty-Four. Permlt Fee for Agrlcultural Machlnery and Other
Hearry Equlpment
Article lbenty-Six. Impounding of Motor Vehicles and Authorizlng the
Collection of Impounding Fees
SECTION 221
Public Pound

Motor Vehicle
t47
Article T\renty-Seven. Permlt Fee on Oceupatlon or Calltng Not Requirtng
Government Erraminatlon
Sectton 222
SECTION 223
SECTION 224
SECTION 225
SECTION 226
SECTION 227
SECTION 228
SECTION 229
SECTION 230
SECTION 231
SECTION 232
SECTION 233
SECTION 234
SECTION 235
Secti,on 236
SECTION 237
SECTION 238
SECTION 239
SECTION 240
Secti+n 241
SECTION 242
SECTION 243
SECTION 244
SECTION 245
SECTION 246
SECTION 247
SECTION 248
SECTION 249
Duties of PNP and City Pound Keeper
A Motor Vehicle Considered to be Abandoned or
Irnproperly Parked
Rate of Fees
Advertisement of Impounded Vehicle
Disposition of the Proceeds of Impounded Motor
Vehicle
Prohibition. . .
Due Care in the safekeeping of the Impounded
Imposition of Fees .
Requirements
Time and Manner of Payment
Surcharge for Late Payment
Administrative Provi,sions . .
Imposition of Fees
Time of Payment
Exernption
Administrative Provision
Article Tbenty-Nine. Permit Fee for firing Range
Imposition of Fee
Administrative Provisions
Article Thirty-One. Air Gun Permit Fee
Imposition of Fee
Administrative Provision
Article Thirty-Ibo. Ambulant Vending Fee
Imposition of Fee
Time and Manner of Payment
Administrative Provisions
Imposition of Fees
Administrative Provision
CHAPIER 4: SERVICE FEES
Artiele One. Secretary's Fees
I45
t46
t47
L47
L47
t48
t49
t49
Article Ttenty-Eight. Permit Fee for the Conduct of Group Activities
Administrative Provisions . .
Time of Payment
Article Thirty. Registration Fee for Ownership of Chalnsaw
trmposition of Fee
Artlcle Thirty-?hree. Perslstent Sldewalk Vendors or Perslstent Vendors
Fees
1<n
L5L
ts2
t52
SECTION 250
Imposition of Fees

Exemption
Time and Manner of Payment
Arttcle Two. City Civil Registry Fees
Imposition of Fees
Exemptions....
Time nf Pavment
Artlcle Three. Fees for Library Senrices
Imposition of Fees
Time and Manner of Payment
Article Five. Police Clearance Fee
Imposition of Fee
Time of Payment
Article Six. Sanitary Inspection Fee
Imposition of Fee
Time of Payment . .
Administrative Provi sion s
Article Seven. Senrice fees for Health Examination
Imposition of Fee
Time of Payment
Arl nrirr iefratirrp
Prnrri.ainn c
Penalty
Article Eight. Social Senrices Fees
Imoosition of Fees
Administrative Provisions .
Article Nlne. City Tourlsm Fees
SECTION 271
Imposition of Fees
Article Ten. Ctty Assessor's Fees
Sectton 272
Imposition of Fees
Artiele Eleven. Polluter's Fee
SECTION 273
Imposition of Fees
CHAPTER 5. CITY CHARGES
Article O*e. Fishery Rerrtals, Fees and Charges
SECTION 251
SECTION 252
SECTION 253
SECTION 254
SECTION 255
SECTION 256
SECTION 257
SECTION 258
SECTION 259
SECTION 260
SECTION 261
SECTION 262
SECTION 263
SECTION 264
SECTION 265
SECTION 266
Q.ar.tinn ?6.7
SECTION 268
SECTION 269
SECTION 270
SECTION 274
SECTION 275
Imposition of Fees
Time and Manner of Payment
Article Four. f'ees of Services Catered by the City Planning
L57
t57
t57
t62
L6.2
t66
Fishery Rentals, Fees and Charges . . . . .
Grant of Fishery Rights by Public Auction

SECTION 276
SECTION 277
S.er.tinn D7R
SECTION 279
SECTION 280
SECTION 281
SECTION 282
SECTION 283
SECTION 284
SECTION 285
SECTION 286
SECTION 287
SECTION 288
SECTION 289
SECTION 290
SECTION 291
SECTION 292
SECTION 293
SECTION 294
SECTION 295
SECTION 296
SECTION 297
SECTION 298
SECTION 299
SECTION 300
SECTION 3O1
SECTION 302
SECTION 303
SECTION 304
SECTION 305
SECTION 306
SECTION 3O7
SECTION 308
SECTION 309
Seetion 31O
SECTION 31 1
SECTION 312
Duration of Lease. . . .
Zonification of City Waters
Imposition of Fees
Privilege of Residents to Take Fish in City Waters .
Time and Manner of Payment . .
Administrative Provisions . . . . . .
Prohibitions and Penalties
Administrative Sanctions and Indemnity
Applicability of Pertinent Provisions of Laws . . . .
Rates of Rental Fees
Time of Payment
Article Three. Senrlce Charge for Garbage Collectlon
Jurisdiction . . .
Areas of Collection and Disposal
Large and Unusual Quantities or Rubbish,
Removal and Additional Fee Required .
Special Collection of Refuse, Permit and Additional
Fee Required .
Disposal - time to Place Receptacle on Sidewalks .
Prohibition on Disposal
Imposition of Fee
Time of Payment . .
Garbage Seruice Charges for Multiple Business . . .
When a Building is Used both for Residential and
Commercial Purposes
Administrative Provisions
Penal Provisions . .
GeneralProvisions...
Facflities
Protection for the Buying Public/Consumer . . . . .
Proper and Identi{iable Sectioning of Markets . . . .
Any Other Rules
PenalProvisions...
Article tr'lve. Charges for Parking
General Purpose
Imposition of Fee
Coll,ected Fees
Time Coverage
Liability of Drivers and/or Owners
Article Six. City Hospital Senrice f'ees
Imnn.sifinn
nf (-ifrr L]nsnifal
Qpnzirp E'pas
Time and Manner of Payment
Exemptions . .
Article Seven. Cemetery Charges
r67
t67
16-7
t69
t76
Article Ttro. Rentals of Personal and Real Properties Owned by the Ctty
Article Four. Guidelines for the Establlshment of Privately-owned Public
Markets in the City of Davao; and Providing Penaltles for Vlolatlons
Thereof; and for Other Purposes
L76
t77
t78
t78
t78
t78
t78
t92
t92
t92
SECTION 313
Coverage

Article Eight. Regulatlon on the Operation and Supervislon Fee on
Funeral Parlors, Privately-Owned Public Cemeteries and Memorial Parks
SECTION 330
Authority to Operate Funeral Parlors, Privately
Owned Public Cemeteries and Memorial Parks . . .
SECTION 314
SECTION 315
SECTION 3tr6
SECTION 317
SECTION 318
SECTION 319
SECTION 320
SECTION 321
SECTION 322
SECTION 323
SECTION 324
SECTION 325
SECTION 326
SECTION 327
SECTION 328
SECTION 329
SECTION 331
SECTION 332
SECTION 333
SECTION 334
SECTION 335
SECTION 336
SECTION 337
SECTION 338
SECTION 339
Q,ar.tirm ?d.fl
SECTION 341
SECTION 342
SECTION 343
SECTION 344
SECTION 345
SECTION 346
SECTION 347
SECTION 348
SECTION 349
SECTION 35O
SECTION 351
SECTION 352
SECTION 353
SECTION 354
Administration of Cemeteries
Lot Classification .
Lot Identification .
Imposition of Fees
Lease of Grave Lots
Niche Rental
Perimeter Niches
Niche Classification
Niche Identification
Time of Payment . .
Place of Tombstone
Tombstone and/or Marker Requirement . .
Authoriaed Person/s to Sign Contr:acl of L,ease . .
Duty of the Cemetery Administrator
Penalty
Administrative Provisions . .
Payment of Supervision Fee
Administrative Provision
Article Nine. Rental fee on Mineral Lands
Collection of Fee
Time of Payment
Article Ten. Occupatlon Fee for Minlng Clalms
Collection of Fee
Time of Payment . .
Administrative Provision . .
Coverage
Authority to Establish Public Markets . . . . .
h4arket Secti,on
City Administrator
Market Superrisor . . . . . .
Market Inspector/s
Market Guard/s and Other Personnel . . .
Wearing of Uniforms . . .
Carrier (Cargadores) in the Public Market
Classification of Fublic Markets
Market Rental Fees, Other Charges
Market Fees for Ambularrt/Trartsient Vendors . . .
Time for Payment/Penalties for Delinquency . . " - .
Occupancy Fee for Awardee . .
Transfer Fee for Transferor and occupancy Fee for
Transferee
Collection
t94
t94
L96
t97
r97
r99
t99
r99
20t
2At
Artlcle Eleven. Regulatlon in the Establishment, Classification,
Adminlstration, and Operation of government-Owned Operated hrbltc
uerket
GENERAL PROVISIONS
Market Committee .

SECTION 355
Adjudication of Vacant stalls to Applicant -
Vacancy of Stalls
SECTION 356
Awardee shaltr Personally Adrninister l-tris/Her
Stall/Booth/Space
2to
2to
2to
2LL
2Lt
2tt
21r
2t2
2L2
2L2
2t3
2t3
2r3
2t3
2t3
2t4
2L4
2t4
2t5
2t7
2r8
2t8
2\.&
2t9
Partnership with Stallholder
Death of Awardee, Succession .
Limitations. .
Appeal
Market Hours
Losses/Damages/Injury of
Stallholders/
Representatives
Abandoned Stall/Articles
Peddfing and Hawking
Loafing, Loitering, Begging and the Like .
Intoxicating Drinks; Dispensing and Serving of . . .
Weights, Measures and
Reflectorized
Light/Gadgets
Loose Animals
Removal of Construction and Alteration of
Stalls/Booths
Revocation of lease . . .
Ejected Stallholders, Disqualified to Participate in
the Drawing of Lots
Prohibitions
Cleaning of Market Premises . . .
Public Toilets and Washing Facilities . .
General Lighting Facilities
Garbage Receptacles
Cooked/Raw Food Protection from Contamination
Construction/Care of Stalls/Booths, Tables and
Imposition of Fees
Place of Slaughter . .
Time of Payment
Administrative Provisions
Prohibition
Confiscation: Other Penalty . . . .
Article Thirteen. City Terminal Fees and Charges
SECTION 389
The Rates of Fees and Charges
SECTION 357
SECTION 358
SECTION 359
SECTION 360
SECTION 361
SECTION 362
SECTION 363
SECTION 364
SECTION 365
SECTION 366
SECTION 367
SECTION 368
SECTION 369
SECTION 370
SECTION 371
SECTION 372
SECTION 373
SECTION 374
SECTION 375
SECTION 376
SECTION 377
SECTION 378
SECTION 380
SECTION 381
SECTION 382
SECTION 383
SECTION 384
SECTION 385
SECTION 386
SECTION 387
SECTION 388
SECTION 390
Other Fixtures
SECTION 379
cleaning of Stalls/Booths or Spaces at end of
Business Day .
Abandonment of Perishable Goods
Posting of Rules and Regulations
PenalProvisions...
Article lbelve. Slaughter and Coral Fees
Article Fourteen. Pasalubong Center
Who May Qualify as A Tenant
Article Fiftaen. Das*o Ctty Reereatio*r Ce*ter
Rates for the Use of the Center .
SECTION 391

SECTION 392
SECTION 393
SECTION 394
SECTION 395
SECTION 396
SECTION 397
SECTION 398
SECTION 399
SECTION 400
Qactinn
4O1
SECTION 402
SECTION 403
SECTION 404
SECTION 405
SECTION 406
SECTION 407
SECTION 408
SECTION 413
SECTION 414
SECTION 415
SECTION 416
SECTION 417
SECTION 418
SECTION 419
SECTION 42O
SECTION 421
SECTION 422
SECTION 423
SECTION 424
Communitv Tax
CIIAPIER 7: OTHER SOURCE OF REVENUE
Share from the Development and Utilization of National Wealth
CHAPTER 6: COMMUNITY TAX
Imposition of Tax
Individuals Liable to Community Tax . . . . .
Juridical Persons Liable to Community Tax
Exemption . . .
Place of Payment . .
Tinae of Payment - Penaltie.s for Delinqtrency . . . .
Community Tax Certificate . . .
Presentation of Community Tax Certificate on
CertainOccasions...
Collection and Allocation of Proceeds of the
Share in the Proceeds frorn the Development and
Utilization of the National Wealth
Amount of Share
Share from Any Government Agency and
Government-Owned or Controlled Corporation
(GOtrI
Remittance of the Share . . .
Development and Livelihood Projects
CHAPIER 8: GENERAL ADMINISTRATM PROVISIONS
Artiele One. Adrninistr*tlve Provisl+n=
Permit to Operate
Submission of List of Employees
Withholding of Business Tax - Requirement of
Tax or Fee for Fraction of a Quarter or Year
Tax Period and Manner of Payment
Accrual of the Tax
'Tirna frrr Par;tranf
Surcharges for late Payment and Interest on
UnpaidTax...
Assessment and Collection
Issuance or Receipts
Record of Persons Paying Revenues
Accounting of Collections . . .
Examination of Books of Accounts and Pertinent
Records of Businessmen by the City Treasurer . . .
Keeping of Cash Register Book and Registration of
Bookof Accounts.....
Invoice Requirements
2t9
22s
22s
.)r<
Witholding,-...
SECTION 409
display of Official Receipt Evidencing Payment of
t]le Tax or Fee
SECTION 410
SECTION 411
SECTION 412
Retirement of Business
Penal Provirsions
Article Ibo. Collection and Accountlng of Taxes and Other Impositions
Authority to Enter into a Compromise Agreement .
t

Article Three. Civil Remedies for Collection of Revenues
Annlinafinn
nf Artinle
City Government's Lien
Civil Remedies
Distraint of Personal Property. The Remedy by
Distraint Shall Proceed as Follows
kvy* on Real Property . . . .
Penalty for Failure to Issue and Execute Warrant .
Advertisement and Sale . . . .
Redemption of Property Sold
Final deed of Purchaser
Purchase of Propert5r by the City for Want of
Bidder
Resale of Real Estate Taken for Taxes, fees or
Charges
Collection of Delinquent Taxes, Fees, Charges or
Other Revenues Through Judicial Action
Further Distraint or [.evy
Personal Property Exempt from Distraint of Levy .
Article Four. Taxpayer's Remedles
Parirvlc
nf Acc.e<rcsrnerrf and Cnllenfinn
Protest of Assessment
Payment Under Protest
Claim for Refund of Tax Credit
Legality of this Code
Artlcle Five. Miscellaneous Provision
Power to levy Other Taxes, Fees or Charges . . . . .
Limitations on the Taxing Powers of the City
Publicatiorr of the Reverrue Code
Authority to Adjust Tax Rates
CHAPTER 9: GEI{ERAL PENAL PROVISIONS
SECTION 448
General Penal Provision
CHAPIER 1O: FINAL PROVISIONS
SECTION 425
SECTION 426
SECTION 427
SECTION 428
SECTION 429
SECTION 43O
SECTION 431
SECTION 432
SECTION 433
SECTION 434
SECTION 435
SECTION 436
SECTION 437
SECTION 438
SECTION 439
SECTION 440
SECTION 441
SECTION 442
SECTION 443
SECTION 444
SECTION 445
SECTION 446
SECTION 447
SECTION 449
SECTION 450
Q,ar.finn 4(1
SECTION 452
Separability clause .
Applicability Clause
Famo.lirrrr
ftlarroa
1\eFv4rrab
vaquuv
Effectivity . . .
23r
23r
23r
23s
)?t236
lttonne'78

Office of the SANGGUNIANG Pantungsod
18u' City Council
38th Regular Session
SERIES of 20L7
PRESENT:
Councilor J. Melchor B. Quitain Jr.
Councilor Nilo G. Abellera Jr.
Councilor Victorio U. Advincula Jr.
Councilor Bernard E. Al-ag
Councilor Al Ryan S. Alejandre
Councilor Dante L. Apostol Sr.
Councilor Conrado C. Baluran
Councilor Joanne M. Bonguyan-Quilos
Councilor Ma. Cherry Ann M. Bonguyan
Councilor Pilar C. Braga
Councilor Danilo C. Dayanghirang
Councilor April Marie C. Dayap
Councilor Jimmy G. Dureza
Councilor Edgar P. Ibuyan Jr.
Councilor Leah A. Librado-Yap
Councilor Rene Elias C. Lopez
Councilor Diosdado Angelo A. Mahipus Sr.
Councilor Avegayle Dalodo Ortiz
Councilor Marissa P. Salvador-Abella
Councilor Halila Y. Sudagar
Councilor Mary Joselle D. Villafuerte
Councilor Jesus Joseph P. Zozobrado III
ON OFFICIAL BUSINESS:
Vice Mayor Paolo Z. Dutefte
Councilor January N. Duterte
ABSENT:
- Temporary Presiding Officer
- On Domestic Emergency Leave
- On Sick Leave
- On Sick Leave
Councilor Maria Belen S. Acosta
Councilor Bonifacio E. Militar
Councilor Antoinette G. Prinsipe-Castrodes
ORDINANCE NO, O29L.17
SERIES of 2017
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE 2OO5 REVENUE CODE
oF THE CITY OF DAVAO, OTHERWISE KNOWN AS THE
2OL7 REVENUE CODE OF THE CITY OF DAVAO

Page 2 r
Ord. No. 029L-17
Be it ordained by the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod of the City of Davao in session
assembled, that:
CHAPTER 1.
GENERAT PROVISIONS
SECTION 1. fitle, - This Ordinance shall be known as 'An Otdinane amending
tfie 2005 Reverme Code of the City of Davao, othetwi* known as the 2077
Revenue Code of the City of Dauaoi
SECTION 2. Scope and Application, -lhis Code shall govern the levy, assessment,
and collection of taxes, fees, charges and other impositions within the territorial jurisdiction
of Davao Gty.
SECTION 3. Wotds and Phrares Not Hercin Exprcssly Defined, - Words and
phrases embodied in this Code not herein specifically defined shall have the same definitions
as found in Republic Act 7160, otherwise known as the Local Government Code of 1991.
SECTION 4. Rules of Construction, - In construing the provisions of this Code,
the following rules of construction shall be obserued unless inconsistent with the manifest
intent of the provisions:
(a) General Rules. All words and phrases shall be construed and understood according to
the common and approved usage of the language; but the technica! words and phrases and
such other words in this Code which may have acquired a peculiar or appropriate meaning
shall be construed and understood according to such technical, peculiar or appropriate
meaning.
(b) Number. Every word importing the singular number shall apply to several persons
or things as well; and every word impofting the plural number shall extend and be applied to
one person or thing as well.
(c) Reasnable Tinn. In all cases where any act is required to be done within the
reasonable time, the same shal! be deemed to mean such time as may be necessary for the
prompt pefformance of the act.
(d) Compubtion of Time. The time within which an act is to be done as provided in this
Code, or in any rule or regulation issued pursuant to the provisions thereof, when expressed
in days, shall be computed by e<cluding the first day and including the last day, except if the
last day falls on a Saturday, Sunday or holiday, in which case the same shall be excluded in
the computation and the business day following shall be considered the last day.
(e) References. All references to chapters, afticles, or sections are to the Chapters,
Afticles or Sections in this Code unless otherwise specified.
(0
Conflicting Prouisions of Chapterc. If the provisions of the different Chapters or
Articles conflict with each other, the provisions of each Chapter or Afticle shall prevail as to
al! specific matterc and questions involved therein.
(g) Conflicting Provisions of *ctions. If the provisions of the different sections in the
same Chapter or Article conflict with each other, the provisions of the SECTION, which is the
last in point or sequence, shall prevail.

Ord. No. 029L-17
SECTION 5. Definition of Terms:
(a) Accessia or Row Hous -a house of not more than two storeys, composed of a row
of dwelling units entirely separated ftom one another by parly wall or walls and with an
independent entrance for each dwelling units.
(a1) Accessory Building - a building subordinate to the main building on the same lot and
used for purposes customarily incidental to those of the main building such as seruants
quafters, garage, pump house, laundry, etc.
(a2) Addition - any new consffiuction which increases the height or area of an existing
building/structure.
(a3) Admission Fee - refers to the monetary consideration that a patron/customer pays
to gain admission to any amusement place.
(a4) Adveftising Agenq - include all persons who are engaged in the business of
adveftising for others by means of billboards, posters, whether pictorials or reading
matters, placards, notices, signs, directories, pamphlets, leaflets, handbills, electric or
neon lights airplanes, balloons or other media.
(a5) Advertising Sign - a sign that directs attention to a business, profession,
commodity, seruices or enteftainment conducted, sold or offered for public/private
consumption exposed in an outdoor presentation.
(a6) Agricultural Building - a building designed and constructed to house farm
implements, hdy, grain, poultry, livestock or other hofticultural products. This structure
shall not be a place of human habitation or a place of employment where agricultural
products are processed, treated or packaged; nor shall it be used by the public.
(a7) Agricultural Land - is land devoted principally to the planting of trees, raising of
crops, Iivestock and poultry, dairying, salt making, inland fishing and similar aqua cultural
activities, and other agricultural activities.
(a8) Agricultural Prcducb - include the yield of the soil such as corn, dc€, wheat,
rye, hay, coconut, sugarcane, tobacco, root crops, vegetables, fruits, flowers, and
their by-products; ordinary salt; all kinds of fish and marine products; poultry and livestock
and animal products, whether in their original form or not.
The phrase "whether in their original form or not" refers to the transformation of
said products by the farmer, fisherman, producer or owner, through the application of
processes to preserve or othenarise to prepare said products for the market such as
freezing, drying, salting, smoking or stripping.
This also indudes those that undergo not only simple but even sophisticated
processes employing advanced technological means in packaging like dressed chicken or
ground coffee in plastic bags or styrofoam or other packaging materials intended to process
and prepare the products for the market.

Ord. No. 0291-17
The term by-products shall mean those materials which in cultivation or processing of
an afticle remain over, and which are still of value and marketable, like copra cake from
copra or molasses from sugar cane.
(a9) Airbnb- is an online markeQlace and hospitality seruice, enabling people to lease or
rent short-term lodging including vacation rentals, aparUnent rentals, homestays, hostels or
hotel rooms.
(at0) Alley - any public space or thoroughfare which has been dedicated or deeded to the
public or public use as a passageway with a width of not more than three (3) meters.
(a11) At'ter or Alteration - any change, addition, or modificaUon in construction or
occupancy, such as changes in the materials used, paftiUoning, location/size of openings,
structural pdfts, existing utilities and equipment but does not increase the overall area
thereof.
(a12) Ambulant, Transient or ltinerant Vendor - refers to a vendor or seller who does not
permanently occupy a definite place of the market but one who comes either daily or
occasionally to sell his/her goods.
(a13) Amusement - is a pleasurable diversion and enteftainment. It is synonymous to
recreation, relaxation, avocation, pastime or fun.
(a14) Amusement Places - include theaters, cinema houses, conceft halls, circuses,
coliseums, gymnasiums, stadiums, cockpits and other similar amusement places, where
one seeks admission to entertain himself by seeing or viewing the show or
pefformance or by direct pafticipation. It also means a place or compound, building or
portion thereof, whether open or enclosed for recreational or enteftainment purposes.
(a15) Other Places of Amusemenf - include all other places of amusement not specifically
enumerated or otherwise provided for in this Ordinance including, but not limited to, night
clubs or day clubs, night and day clubs, cocKail lounges, supper or family clubs, disco
houses, minus-one or sing-along houses, bars or beer houses/gardens, fast food centers
showing sports competitions or replay shows by direct hookup via satellite or those
showing video cassette films/movies, beach resofts, and other places of amusement
where one seeks admission to entertain himself whether by seeing or viewing or by
direct pafticipation.
(a16) Ancillary Building/Structure - a secondary building/structure located within the
same premises the use of which is incidental to that of the main building/structure.
(a17) Apartel - any building or edifice containing severa! independent and furnished or
semi-furnished apafirnents, regularly leased to tourists and travelers for dwelling on a
more or less long-term basis and offering basic seruices to its tenants, similar to hotels.
(a18) Apafuttenf - a room or suite of two or more rooms, designed and intended for, or
occupied by one family for living, sleeping, and cooking purposes.
(a19) Apartnent House -any building or poftion thereof, which is designed, built, rented,
leased, let or hired out to be occupied, or which is occupied as the home or residence of

Ord. No. 0291-L7
three or more families living independently from each other and doing their own cooking
in the building, and shall include flats and apaftments.
(a20) Arcade - any poftion of a building above the first floor projecting over the sidewalk
beyond the first-storey wall used as protection for pedestrians against rain or sun.
(a21) Arrastre - shall mean the operation of conveying and loading merchandise on piers
or wharues.
(a22) Assembly Building or Hall - a building or a poftion of a building used for the
gathering of fifly (50) or more persons for such purposes as deliberation, workshop,
enteftainment, amusement, or awaiting transportation or of a hundred or more persons in
drinking and dining establishments.
(a23) Astray Animal- means an anima! which is set loose unrestrained, and not under the
complete control of iE owner, or the charge or in possession thereof, found roaming at-large
in public or private places whether fettered or not.
(a24) Attic Storey -any storey situated wholly or paftly in a roof, so designed, arranged, or
built as to be used for business, storage, or habitation.
(a25) Awning -a movable shelter suppofted entirely from the exterior wall of a building and
of a type which can be retracted, folded, or collapsed against the face of supporting building.
(b) Backing -the surface or assembly to which veneer is attached.
(b1) Balcony - a portion of the seating space of an assembly room, the lowest paft of
which is raised 1.20 meters or more above the level of the main floor.
(b2) Balcony Exterior Exit - a landing or porch projecting from the wall of a building,
which serues as a required means of egress. The long size shall be at least fifty percent
(50o/o) open, and the open area above the guardrail shall be so distributed as to prevent
the accumulation of smoke or toxic gases.
(b3) Banlcs and other financial institutions - include non-bank financial intermediaries,
lending investors, finance and investment companies, pawnshops, money shops, insurance
companies, stock markets, stock brokers and dealer in securities and foreign exchange, as
defined under applicable laws, or rules and regulations thereunder.
(M) Bar - includes any place or establishment, whose principal business is the sale of
alcoholic beverages or liquors of any kind to be used or consumed within its premises
whether or not accompanied by any form of enteftainment such as, but not limited to,
music or dancing.
(b5) Barangay Micro Business Enterprise (BMBE) - as defined under Republic Act No.
9L78, refers to any business entity or enterprise engaged in the production, processing or
manufacturing of products or commodities, including agro-processing, trading and
seruices, whose total assets including those arising from loans but exclusive of the Iand on
which the particular business entity's office, plant and equipment are situated, shall not be
more than Three Million Pesos (P3,000,000.00).

Ord. No. 029t-L7
(b6) Barbecue - a stationary open heaft or brazier, either fuel-fired or electric, used for
food preparation.
(b7) Basement -the paft of a building that is wholly or paftly below ground leve!.
(b8) Bay or Panel- one of the interuals or spaces into which the building front is divided
by columns, buttresses, or division walls.
(b9) Bet Manager (Kasado) - a person who calls and takes care of bets from owners of
both gamecocks and those of other bettors before he orders commencement of the
cockfight and thereafter, distributes winning bets to the winners after deducting a ceftain
commission.
(btO) Bet-taker (Kristo) - a person who participates in cocKights and with the use of
money or other things of value, bets with other bettors, or through other bet-takers and
wins or loses his bets depending upon the result of the cocKights as announced by the
referee or sentenciador.
(b11) Billboard -a panel for posting bills or posters which exceeds six (6) sq. m. in area.
(b12) Breeder - a person engaged in game fow! breeding propagation for personal and/or
commercial purposes for eventual use in cockfighting.
(b13) Brewer- includes all persons who manufacture fermented liquor of any description
for sale or delivery to others but does not include manufacturer of tuba, tapuy or similar
domestic fermented liquors, whose production does not exceed two hundred gauge liters.
(b14) Boarding House - includes any house where renters are accepted for compensation
by the week or by the month, and whether or not meals are serued; a house with sleeping
rooms where renters are provided with lodging, for a fixed sum paid by the month, or
week, in accordance with previous arrangement.
(b15) Bondsman - means any person habitually engaged in the business of furnishing
bonds in civi! actions or for persons arrested or detained for prosecution.
(b16) Boiler Room -any room containing a steam or hot water boiler.
(b17) Boxing Arena or Stadium - means a place or compound, whether open or enclosed,
where only professiona! boxing contest are held.
(b18) Boxing Exhibition - includes every exhibition of the aft of attack and defense with
the fists.
(b19) Buildable Area -the remaining space in a lot after deducting the required minimum
open spaces.
(b20) Building - referc to alt kinds of structure more or less permanenUy attached to a piece
of land, excluding those, which are merely superimposed on the soil; any structure built for
the support, shelter, or enclosure of percons, animals, chattels, or property of any kind.

Ord. No. 029t-17
(b21) Building Height -the vertical distance from the established grade elevation to the
highest point of the coping of a flat roof, to the average height of the highest gable or a
pitch or hip roof, or to the top of the parapet if the roof is provided with a parapet. In case
of slopping ground, the average ground level of the buildable area shall be considered the
established grade elevation.
(b22) Building Length - its general linear dimensions usually measured in the direction of
the bearing wall for girders.
(b23) Building Line - the line formed by the intersection of the outer suface of the
enclosing wall of the building and the suface of the ground.
(b24) Building Permit - is a permit issued by the City Government to a person, firm, or
corporation, including any government agency or instrumentality, authorizing them to erect,
construct, alter, repair, move, conveft or demolish any building or structure, or cause the
same to be done.
(b25) Building Width - shoftest Iinear dimensions usually measured in the direction of the
floor, beams or joists.
(b26) Business Agent - includes all persons who act as agent of others in the transaction
of business with any public officers, as well as those who conduct collection or advertising
for another.
(b27) Business Sign - an identification of premises or accessory sign that directs attention
to a profession, business, commodity, service or enteftainment conducted, sold or offered
in the same place where the business is located.
(c) Calling - means one's regular business, trade, profession, vocation or employment
which does not require the passing of an appropriate government board or bar
examination, such as professional actors and actresses, hostesses, masseurs, commercial
stewards and stewardesses, etc.
(c1) Carenderb refers to any public eating place where foods already cooked are
serued at a price.
(c2) Capital - signifies the actual estate, whether in money or property, owned by
an individual or corporation; it is a fund with which it transacts its business and which
would be liable to each creditor, and which in case of insolvency, passes to a receiver.
(c3) Capital Investment - is the capital which a person employs in any undeftaking, or
which he contributes to the capital of a paftnership, corporation, or any other juridical
entity or association in a particular taxing jurisdiction.
(c4) Cellar -the poftion of a building between floor and ceiling which is wholly or partly
below grade and so located that the veftical distance from grade to the floor below is
equal to or greater than the vertical distance from grade to ceiling.
(c5) Charges- refer to pecuniary liability, as rents or fees against persons or property.
(c6) Chimney Classifications:

Ord. No. 029L-L7
c6. 1. ResidenUal Appliance Type - a factory-built or masonry chimney suibble for
removing products of combustion from residential type appliance producing combustible
gases not in excess of 538"C measured at the appliance flue outlet.
6. 2. Low-Heat Appliance Type - a factory-built masonry or metal chimney suitable
for removing products of combustion from fuel-burning low-heat appliances producing
combustion gases not in excess of 538"C under normal operating conditions but capable of
producing combustible temperatures measured at the appliance flue outlet.
c6. 3.Medium-Heat Appliance Type - a factory-built or masonry or metal chimney
suitable for removing products of combustion ftom fuel-burning medium-heat appliance
producing combustible gases not in excess of 1093"C measured at the appliance flue outlet.
(c7) Chimney Connector - the pipe which connects a flue-burning appliance to a
chimney.
(c8) Chimney Linear- the lining materials of fire clay or other approved materials.
(c9) Chimney Masonry - the chimney of solid masonry unit bricks, stones, listed hollow
units, masonry units or reinforced concrete.
(c10) Chiropodist - means one skilled in treating diseases of the hand and feet; but is not
restricted to the treatment of ailment of the feet.
(c11) Circus - includes every building, tent, or area where feats of horsemanship,
acrobatic performance, or similar acts are exhibited.
(c12) CWMunicipal Waterc - include not only streams, lakes and tidal waters within the
City, not being the subject of private ownership and not comprised within the national parks,
public forest, timber lands, forest reserues or fishery reserves, but also marine waters
included between two (2) lines drawn perpendicularly to the general coastline from points
where boundary lines of the City touch the sea at low tide and a third line parallel with the
general coastline and fifteen (15) kilometers from it. Where two (2) municipalities are so
situated on the opposite shores that there is less than fifteen (15) kilometers of marine
waters between them, the third line shall be equally distant from opposite shores of the
respective municipa! ities;
(c13) CiU Public Market - refers to a public market maintained, owned and/or operated
by the City Government within its tenitorialjurisdiction.
(c14) Club - includes any regularly organized club, voluntary association or organized
action maintained, conducted or controlled for the amusement, recreation, or
improvement of the memberc thereof, for which an initiation is necessary or membership
dues or fees are required before admission, and that the same is not operated for
profit.
(c15) Cocker (aficionado) - a person who pafticipates and bets in cockfighting as a sport,
amusement, recreation or form of relaxation.
(c16) Cockfighting (Sabong) - shall embrace and mean the commonly known game or
term "Cockfighting derby', "pintakasi",'tupada", or its equivalent term in different
Philippine localities.

Ord. No. 029L-17
(c17) Cockfight (Sultada) - the actual fighting or physical combat of two (2) pitted or
evenly matched gamecocks where bets on either side are laid.
(c18) Cockpit - includes any place, compound, building or portion thereof, where
cocKights are held whether or not money is bet on the result of such cockfights.
(c19) Cockpit Manager -a person who professionally, regularly and habitually manages a
cockpit and cockfights therein. He may or may not be the owner of the cockpit himself.
(c20) Cocktail Lounge - same definition as Supper or Family Clubs.
(c21) Colisum - includes amphitheater, covered or otherwise or other place where
professional or non-professional athletic competitions, including boxing exhibitions, are
held.
(c22) Collecting Agenq - includes any person other than a practicing Attorney-at-Law
engaged in the business of collecting or suing debts or liabitities placed in his
hands, for said collection or suit, by subscribers or customers applying and paying
therefor; while a "Mercantile Agency" is any person engaged in the business of gathering
information as to the financial standing ability, or credit of persons engaged in
business, and reporting the same to subscribers or to customers applying and paying
therefor.
(c23) Commercial Broker - includes all persons other than importers, manufacturers,
producers or bona fide employees, who, for compensation or profit, sel! or bring about
sale or purchase of merchandise for other persons; bring proposed buyers and sellers
together; or negrotiate freight or other business for owners of vessels or other means of
transportation, or for the shipperc, consigners, or non-consignerc of freight carried by
vessels or other means of transpoftation. The term includes commission merchants.
@zfi Compounder- comprises every person who, without rectifying, puriffing, or refining
distilled spirits, wine, or other. liquor with any materials except water, manufacture any
intoxicating beverage.
(c25) Concerto or Concert - a musical performance by a number of voices or instruments,
or both; the combination of voices or instruments to produce harmony; a performance of
music before an audience. The term is sornetimes reserved for a pefformance by several
musicians. The word conceft originally meant a combination of peformers ('a consort of
violst rather than the peformance itself.
(c26) Concrete Block - a hollow or solid concrete masonry unit made from cement and
suitable aggregates such as sand, gravel, crushed stone, bituminous or anthracite cinders,
burned clay, pumice, volcanic scoria, air cooled or expanded blast furnace slugs.
(c27) Confiscatory - is that which amount to undue seizure or fofeiture of private
propefi in favor of the public treasury;
(c28) Construction - all on-site work done from site preparation, excavation, foundation,
assembly of all the components and installation of utilities and equipment of
building/structure.

Page 10,
Ord. No. 029L-t7
(c29) Consumer - includes those who directly purchase or acquire from manufacturers,
producers, and distributors of afticles or goods for their direct use or consumption, or for
distribution for the use or consumption of others as the end users or ultimate consumers.
(c30) Contractor - includes persons, natural or juridical, not subject to professional tax
under SECTION 139 of the Local Government Code of 1991, whose activity consists
essentially of the sale of all kinds of seruices for a fee, regardless of whether or not the
pefformance of the seruice calls for the exercise or use of the physical or mental faculties
of such contractor or his employees.
It is deemed synonymous with the term "Builder" and hence, any person who
undertakes or offerc to undeftake or submits a bid to, or does himself or through others,
constructs, alters, repairs, add to, subtracts from, improves, moves, wrecks or demolishes
any building, highway, road, railroad, excavation or other structure, or work in connection
therewith. The term "contractor" includes sub-contractor, general engineering, general
building, specialty and seruice contractors, as defined under applicable laws;
1) A "General Engineering Contractor" - is a percon whose principal
contracting business is in connection with fixed works
requiring
specialized engineering knowledge and skill, including the following
divisions or subjec8: Irrigation, drainagq water power, water supply, flood
control, inland waterways, harborc, docks and wharues, shipyards and
potB, dams, hydro-electric projecB, levees, river antrol and reclamation
worl<s, railroads, highways, waste reduction planb, bridges, overpasses,
underpasses and other similar works, pipelines, and other systems for the
transmission of petroleum and other liquid or gaseous substance, land
leveling and earth mouing prolecB, excavation, grading trenching, paving
and suffacing works, filling, demolition, and salvage work contractorc;
persons engaged in the installation of gas or electric ligh| heat energy or
power, and all of similar works not spcifically prouided herein.
2) A "General Building Contractor" - is a penon whos principal contracting
business is in connection with any structure built, being built or b be buil|
for the support, shelter and enclosure of percons, animals, chattels or
mouable property of any kind, requiring in its construction the use of more
than two unrelated building trades or crafu, or to do or superintend the
whole or any part thereof, Such structure includes sewets and sewerage
disposal planE and systems, parks, playgrounds and other recreational
worlcs, refineries, chemical planB and similar industrial plants, requiring
specialized engineering knowledge and skill, powerhouses, power planb and
other utility plants and installations, mines and metallurgical planB, cement
and concrete wo*s in connection wiffi the above-mentioned fixed works. All
other similar work not sp*ifially prouided herein,
A perwn who merely furnishes materials or supplies without
fabricating them intq or consuming them in the performance of the work of
the general building contractor does not necessarily fall within this definition.

Ord. No. 029L-L7
3) A "Specialty Contractoro - is a person whose operations peftain to
the performance of construction work requiring special skill and whose
principal contracting business involves the use of specialized building
trades or crafu.
4) A "Seruice Contractor'- is any person principally rendering or offering
seruices, whether by manual labor, the use of expeftise or with the use of
facilities or machines for a fee.
Proprietorc or operatorc of shopping centerc and privately-owned
public markeB;
Prcprietorc or operatorc of arrastre and stevedoring warehousing
and forwarding or messengerial reruices; master plumber, smiths and house
or sign painterc; printerc, bookbinderc, lithographerc, video coverage;
publisherc, except those engaged in the publication or printing of any
newspaper, magazine, review or bulletin which appeao at regular interuals
with fixed prices for subrcription and sale and which is not devoted
principally to the publication of adveftisement; adveftising agencies;
business agenB, private detective or watchman agencies; proprietorc or
operators of smelting plants, or assaying laboratories;
Shops for searing animals; vaciador shops, upholstery shops; shipping
agencies; collecting agencies; hampgrading establishmenE; indentor and/or
indent seruices; litherages; permapress establishmenB;
Business consultanB and management agencies; skin care specialisB
or consultanb; booking offices for local exchange (except imported films)
brokerages; interior decoration seruices; employment seruices; priuate
hospitalg medical, dental and optical clinia; animal hospitals; public fenies;
purchasing warehouses and bodegas; purchasing agenB and/or purchasing
agencies; rccapping planB; rental of equipment, document afety boxes
fumiture, bicycles, vehicles suits and vestnenE, skates, brakes, rent-a-car
seruices, sound rystem; roasting of pigs and fowls not sold for retail; sand
and gravel contractorc; sculpture shops; painting, silk-scrcening and T-shirt
printing; wood caruing and handicraft shops; tannierc;
Travel agencies; vocational and/or driving schools; schools and
univercities; review schools; watch repair center shops; off-trad beffing
centerc br races;
Business agenB and other independent contractors (iuridical or
naturaQ not included among individual subject to professional tax and whose
activity consisB essentially of the sale of all kinds of seruices for a fee;
Commercial, immigration, and customs brokerc; and cinematograph
film ownery lessorc or distributors, and video coverage;
Proprietorc or operators of mine drilling apparatus; proprietorc or
operatorc of dockyards.

Ord. No. 029t-L7
And all other similar establishmenb or sruices not herein expressly
prouided.
As used in this Code, Afticle Ten. - Graduated Tax on Business, the term
"contractor" shall include proprietors or operators of: mine drilling apparatus; dockyards;
establishment engaged in the installation of water system and gas or electric light or heat;
smelting plants; engraving, plating, or plastic lamination establishments; establishment for
repairing, repainting, upholstering, washing or greasing of vehicles, heavy equipment,
vulcanizing, recapping and battery charging; furniture shops; establishment for planning or
surfacing and re-cutting of lumber and sawmills under contract to saw or cut logs
belonging to others; dry-cleaning or dyeing, steam laundries and/or using washing
machines establishments; shops for the repair of any kind of mechanical and electrical
devices, instruments, apparatus, furniture, or shoe repairing by machine or any
mechanical or electrical devices; establishments or lots for parking purposes; tailor shopq
dress shops, milliners and hatters, beauty parlors, barbershops, massage clinics, sauna,
Turkish and Swedish baths, slenderizing and body-building saloon and similar
establishments; photographic studios; funeral parlors; hotels, motels, and lodging houses,
apaftels, inns, boarding houses and dormitories; lessors of real estate, arrastre and
stevedoring, warehousing, or forwarding establishments; master plumbers, smiths, or sign
painters; printers, bookbinders, lithographers, publishers -except those engaged in the
publication or printing of any newspaper, magazine, review or bulletin which appears at
regular intervals with fixed prices for subscription and sale and which is not devoted
principally to the publication of advertisemenb; business agents, private detectives or
watchman agencies; commercial and immigration brokers; cinematographic film owners,
lessors and distributors.
(c31) Cooperative - is a duly registered association of persons, with a common bond of
interest, who have voluntarily joined together to achieve a laMul, common, social, or
economic end, making equitable contributions to the capital required and accepting a fair
share of the risks and benefits of the undertaking in accordance with universally accepted
cooperative pri nciples.
(c32) Corporations - include paftnerships, ro matter how it was created or organized, jointstock companies, joint accounts (cuentas en pafticipation), associations or insurance
companies but does not include general prcfessional parherchips and a joint venture or
consoftium formed for the purpose of undertaking consffiuction projects or engaging in
petroleum, coal, geothermal, and other energy operations or consoftium agreement under a
seruice contract with the government. General professional partnerchips are paftnerships
formed by persons br the sole purpose of exercising their common profession, no part of the
income of which is derived from engaging in any trade or business;
The term "resident foreign" when applied to a corporation means a foreign
corporation not otherwise organized under the laws of the Philippines but engaged in trade
or business within the Philippines.
(c33) Convention - is any gathering for the purpose of exchanging or disseminating
views, technical expeftise, experiences, knowledge, skills, information, policies or any
other related activity. It does not include corporate meetings or events where
participation is limited to company personnel only. The term embraces the following:

Ord. No. 029L-t7
c33a. Conference - is usually a general session and face-to face groups with
high pafticipation to plan, get facts, solve organization and member
problems.
c33b. Congress - is a more commonly used European designation for
convention and mainly international in scope.
c33c. Seminar - is usually a face-to-face group sharing experiences in a
pafticular field under the guidance of an expeft discussion leader, with a
maximum attendance of thifi (30) persons.
c33d. Lecture - is a formal presentation by an expeft sometimes followed by
question and answer period.
c33e. Symposium - is a panel discussion by expefts in a given field before a
large audience, some audience participation but appreciably less than a
forum.
c33f. Forum - is a panel discussion taking opposite sides of an issue by
experts in a given field with liberal opportunity for audience pafticipation.
c33g.Workshop - is usually a general session and face-to-face groups of
participants training each other to gain new knowledge, skills or insights
to problems. Attendance is generally from thifi to thifi-five (30-35)
participants.
c33h. Colloquium- is a program in which the pafticipants determine the
matter to be discussed. The leaders would then construct the program
around the most frequent problems, usually attended by a maximum of
thirty-five (35) persons with equal emphasis on instruction and
discussion.
c33i. Professional Congress Organizer (PCO) - is any person, natural or
juridical, who manages conventions, either as an official of an
organization, consultant, volunteer or as a retained professional.
(c34) Convercion - a change in the use or occupancy of a building/structure to inoease
its value, utility and/or to improve its aesthetic quality.
(c35) Coping -the materials or units used to form a cap of finish on top of a wall, pier or
pilaster.
(c36) Corosion-Resistanf - the non-ferrous metal, or any metal having an unbroken
surface of non-ferrous metal, or steel with not less than ten percent (10%) chromium or
with less than 0.20 percent copper.
(c37) Corrosion-Resistant Materials - materials that are inherently rust-resistant or
materials to which an approved rust-resistive coating has been applied either before or
after forming or fabrication.

Ord. No. 029L-t7
(c3B) Cottage Enterprise - an enterprise with an asset size of Five Hundred Thousand
Pesos (P500,000.00) and below.
(c39) Cource - a continuous horizontal layer of masonry units.
(c40) Court - an occupied space between building and lot lines other than a yard; free,
open, and unobstructed by appendages from the ground upward.
(d) Dancing Pauilion - includes any space within the duly licensed restaurants or other
public eating places other than a night club or bar where the operator thereof allows the
use of the said space by its patrons or customerc for casual dancing to the
accompaniment of music by an orchestra or "rondalla" or by an amplifier or jukebox.
(d1) Dancing khool- includes any establishment where ballroom dancing is taught and
permitted to the public in consideration of an enrollment, admission, membership or any
other fee.
(d2) Dealer - means one whose business is to buy and sell merchandise, goods and
chattels, as a merchant. He stands immediately between the producer or manufacturer
and the consumer, and depends for his profit not upon the labor he bestows upon his
commodities but upon the skill and foresight with which he watches the market.
(d3) Dealer in Securities - includes all persons who for their own account, are engaged
in the sale of stocks, bonds, exchange, bullion, coined money, bank notes, promissory
notes, or other securities.
(d4) Demolition - the systematic dismantling or destruction of a building/structure, in
whole or in paft.
(d5) Department Store - is a store that sells or carries lines of merchandise that is
organized into separate sections for the purpose of promotion, selvice, accounting and
control.
(d6) Disco hall- includes any place or establishment where dancing is permitted to the
public in consideration of admission fee, entrance fee, or any other fee paid on, before or
after the dancing.
(d7) Dispersal Area (safe) -An area which will accommodate a number of persons equal
to the total capacity of the stand and building it serues, in such a manner from the stand
or building. Dispersal areas shall be based upon an area of not less than 0.28 square
meter per person.
(dB) Display Sign - any material, device or structure that is arranged, intended,
designed, or used as an adveftisement, announcement, or directory that includes a sign,
sign screen, billboard or advertising device of any kind.
(d9) Display Stand - any movable structure, table, showcase cabinet and the like where
goods or periodicals are displayed.
(d10) Display Surface - the entire area enclosed by the extreme limits or perimeter of a
sign.

Ord. No. 0291-t7
(d11) Display Wndow - that poftion of a building abutting the sidewalk open to public
view protected by grills, screens or transparent materials for the display of goods.
(d12) Distiller of SpiriB- comprises all who distill spirituous liquor by original and
continuous distillation from mash, wort, wash, sap, or syrup through continuous closed
vessels and pipes until manufacture thereof is complete.
(d13) Dwelling - any building or any portion thereof which is not an "apartment house",
"lodging house', or a "hotel" as defined in this Code which contains one or two "dwelling
uniH'or "guest rooFTls" used, intended or designed to be built, used, rented, leased, let or
hired out to be occupied, or which are occupied for living purposes.
(d14) Dwelling, Indigenous Family - a dwelling intended for the use and occupancy of
the family of the owner only. It is one constructed of native materials such as bamboo,
nipa, logs, or lumber, the total cost of which does not exceed Fifteen Thousand Pesos
(P15,000.00).
(d15) Dwelling, Multiple - a building used as a home or residence of three or more
families living independently from one another, each occupying one or more rooms as a
single housekeeping unit.
(d16) Dwelling, One Family - a detached building designated, for or occupied exclusively
by one family.
(d17) Dwelling Unit - one or filor€ habitable roorns which are occupried or whkh are
intended or designated to be occupied by one family with facilities for living, sleeping,
cooking and eating.
(d18) Doing Business - shall refer to any activity for the purpose of commercial gain, or
carrying out the purposes and objects of the business such as, but not limited to,
appointing representatives, distributors, dealers and business agents pafticipating in the
sales, management, superuision, or control of the business ftrm, entity, or corporation,
and the solicitation of orders, purchases, seruice contracts, or operating offices, whether
called as "liaison" offices or branches, display centers, showrooms, administrative or
booking offices.
(e) Electrical Sign - any sign which has characters, letters, figures, designs, faces,
backgrounds or outline illuminated by incandescent or fluorescent lamps or luminous tubes
as part of the sign proper, neon signs included. These light sources being either external
or internal.
(e1) Enteftainment Dancery any enteftainer professionally engaged in dancing for a
fee.
(e2) Erection - installation in place of components of a building/structure.
(e3) Establishmenf - Economic unit that produces and/or sells goods or seruices, and
operates ftom a single physical location. If a firm has several locations, each is termed an
establishment.

Ord. No. 029t-L7
(e4) *cessive - means that which is characterized by whatever is notably greater than
what is moderate, reasonable proper, usual, necessary and just.
(e5) *hibit and event organizer - is any person, cornpany or entity who shall be
responsible in organizing, arranging, sponsoring and in taking control and acting for any
and all organizations, exhibits or institution, including the officers, agenE, and/or
employees thereof, on all aspects of the management of an exhibit.
(e6) *isting Building firucture - is one constructed under R.A. 6541 or P.D. 1096, if
legally done in accordance therewith.
(e7) Exit - a continuous and unobstructed means of egress to a public way, and shall
include interuening doors, doorways, corridors, exterior exit balconies ramps, stainruays,
smoke proof enclosures, horizontal exits, exit passageways, exit coufts, and yards. An exit
shall be deemed to be that point which opens directly into a safe dispersal area or public
way. All measurements are to be made to that point when determining the permissible
distance of travel.
(e8) Exit CourE - a yard or court providing egress to a public way for one or more
required exits.
(e9) Exit Horizontal - a means of passage from one building into another building
occupied by the same tenant through a separation wall having a minimum fore resistance
of one hour.
(e10) Exit Passageway - an enclosed means of egress connecting a required exit or exit
couft with a public way.
(0
Facing - Any masonry, forming an integral part of a wall used as finished sudace (as
contrasted to veneer).
(f1) Fe - a charge fixed by law or ordinance for the regulation or inspection of a business
or activity. It shall also include charges fixed by law or agency for the seruices of a public
officer in the discharge of his official duties;
(fZ) Firebrick a refractory brick.
(R) Fireclay - a finely ground clay used as plasticizer for masonry moftars, varies widely
in physical propefties.
(f4) Fireplace - a heafth and fire chamber or similarly prepared place in which fire may
be made and which is built in conjunction with a chimney.
(f5) Fire Retardant-Treated Wood - lumber or plywood impregnated with chemicals and
when tested in accordance with accepted fire standards for a period of thifi (30) minutes
shall have a flame-spread or not over twenty-five percent (25o/o) and show no evidence of
progressive combustion. The fire-retardant propefties shall not be considered permanent
when exposed to the weather.
(ffi) First Storey - the storey floor of which is at or above the level of the sidewalk or
adjoining ground, the remaining storeys being numbered in regular succession upward.

Ord. No. 0291-L7
(f7) Flash Point - means the temperature at which liquid gives a vapor sufficient to form
ignitable mixture with the air near the sufface of the liquid or within the vessel used.
(fi8) Floor Area -the area included within the surrounding exterior walls of a building or
poftion thereof, exclusive of vent shafts and courts. The floor area of a building or portion
thereof, not provided with surrounding exterior walls shall be the usable area under the
horizontal projection of the roof or floor above.
(B) Footing that pottion of the foundation of a structure which spreads and transmits
loads directly to the soil of the pile.
(f10) Foundation - all the poftions of the building or structure below the footing, the
eafth upon which the structures rests.
(f11) Franchis - is a right or privilege, affected with public interest that is conferred upon
private persons or corporations, under such terms and conditions as the government and its
politica! subdivisions may impose in the interest of public welfare, security and safety;
(f12) Frolic Device- includes amusement rides, sideshows, ferries, shooting galleries, and
booths with shows for amusement.
(f13) Forest lands - include the public forest, the permanent forest or the forest reserues
and forest reseruations.
(f14) Forest ProducB- means timber, pulp-wood/chip wood, firewood, fuel wood and minor
forest products such as bark, tree tops, resins, gum, wood, oil, honey, beeswax, nipa, rattan
or other forest growth such as grass, shrub, and flowering plants, the associated water, fish,
scenic, historical, recreationa!, and geologic resources in forest lands.
(g) Gaffer (Mananari) - a person knowledgeable in the technique or arming fighting cocks
with gafE on either or both legs.
(g1) Gamsock -refers to domesticated fowls, whether impofted or locally bred, as well as
the native fighting coc( indigenous to the country, especially bred, trained and conditioned
for actual cockfighting or for propagation and b,reeding purpores for eventual use in
cockfighting.
(g2) Garbage -shall include the refuse of animal or vegetable matter or food supplies as
were intended for human food but have been rejected for such use, waste or used papers,
posted cars, woven materials, straws, wood, hush, cans, broken glass or porcelain, loose
or decayed materials, dirt like substance, sweepings and cafting and waste products or
materials of manufacturing establishments and construction works, including all matters
already completely abandoned and considered as waste by the owner and thrown outside
the residential warehouse and manufacturing premises of the owner.
(g3) Garage - a building or portion thereof in which a motor vehicle containing gasoline,
distillate, or other volatile, flammable liquid in its tank, is stored, repaired, or kept.
(g4) Garagq Commercial - a garage where automobiles and other motor vehicles are
housed, cared for, equipped, repaired or kept for remuneration, hire or sale.

Ord. No. 0291-L7
(g5) Garage, Open Parking - a structure of one or more tiers in height which is at least
fifty percent (50o/o) open on two or more sides and is used exclusively for the parking or
storage of passenger motor vehicles having a capacity of not more than nine (9) persons
per vehicle. Open parking garages are further classified as either ramp-access or
mechanical -access. Ramp-access, open parking garages are those employing a SERIES of
continuously rising floors permitting the movement of vehicles under their own power
from and to the street level. Mechanical access parking garages are those employing
parking machines, lifts, elevators, or other mechanical seryice for vehicles moving from
and to street level and in which public occupancy is prohibited above the street level.
(g6) Garage Private - a building or a poftion of a building in which only motor vehicles
used by the tenants of the building or buildings on the premises are stored or kept.
(g7) Girder-a horizontal structural piece which supports the end of the floor beams or
joists or walls over opening.
(g8) Golf Link - includes any place, compound or any poftion thereof, where, for a fee or
compensation, customers and club members are allowed to play golf or simulated golf
garnes or practice golf.
(99) Government-owned and/or Operated Public Marke9 - refers to those established
out of public funds or those leased/acquired by any legal modes or means from private
persons, natural or juridical, to be operated by the government either thru its
i nstrurnentaliq/, branch or politkal subd ivisions.
(g10) Grade (Adjacent Ground Elevation) - the lowest point of elevation of the finished
surface of the ground between the exterior wall of a building and a point one and one-half
(1.50) meters distant from said wall, or the lowest point of elevation of the finished
suface of the ground between the exterior wall of a building and a propefi line if it is
less than one and one-half (1.50) meters distant from said wall. In case walls are parallel
to and within one and one-half (1.50) meters of public sidewalk, alley, or other public way,
the grade shall be the elevation of the sidewalk, alley or public way.
(g11) Grois Output- means the actual rnarket value of the manufactured or produced
products without any deduction for manufacturing, producing, milling, transporting,
handling, marketing or any other expenses, except in the case of manufacturer or
producer under the term CIF, in which case, the actual cost of ocean freight and insurance
shall be deducted.
(912) Gross Sales or Receipb - include the total amount of money or its equivalent
representing the contract price, compensation or seruice fee, including the amount charged
or materials supplied with the seruices and deposits or advance payments actually received
during the taxable quafter for the seruices peformed or to be performed for another person
excluding discounts if determinable at the time of sales, sales return, excise tax, and value
added tax (VAT);
(g13) Gross ReceipB of Hotels, Restauran@ etc - means the charges or prices, or
compensation paid by the guest for their lodging, meals and for such other seruices and
attention as are nec€ssary and incidental to the use of hotels as temporary abode. In the
case of restaurants, cafe or refreshment parlor, it refers to the charges, prices or
compensation paid for the meals, cooked foods, or refreshment serued to the patrons.

Page 19,
Ord. No. 0921-L7
@14) Ground Floor - the storey at or near the level of the grade, the other storeys,
beginning with second, for the first next above, shall be designated by the successive floor
numbers counting upward.
(g15) Ground Sign -a sign resting on the ground.
(916) Guest Room - any room or rooms used, or intended to be used by a guest for
sleeping purposes; every 9.30 square meters or superficial floor area in a dormitory shall
be considered to be a guest room.
(h) Handler (Sultado) - a person who personally takes physical custody and control,
inside the area of pitted gamecock and who actually released the same for actual fight and
combat in a cockfight.
(h1) Habitable Room - any room meeting the requirement of this Code for sleeping,
living, cooking or dining purposes, excluding such enclosed spaces as closets, pantries,
bath or toilet room, seruice rooms, connecting corridors, laundries, unfinished attics,
storage, space cellars, utility rooms, and similar spaces.
(h2) Hall, Common - a corridor or passageway used in common by all the occupants
within a building.
(h3) Hall, Stair - a hall which includes the stair, stair landings and those poftions of the
common halls through which it is necessary to pass in going between the entrance floor
and the room.
(h4) Heliport - an area of land or water or a structural surface which is used, or
intended for use in the landing and take off of helicopters and any appuftenant areas
which are used, or intended for use, for heliport buildings and other heliport facilities.
(h5) Helistop - the same as heliport except that no refueling, maintenance, repairs, or
storage of helicopters is permitted.
(h6) Highly-Built-Up Urban Area a commercial and/or industrial site which is
characterized by high-rise buildings or establishment.
(h7) Hostess - woman enteftainer whose seruices are hired by a night club or
day club operator for the purpose of entertaining its patrons, guests or customers,
allowing said hostess to dance and/or converse, talk or chat with them usually for an
honorarium at the discretion of the patrons, guests, or customers.
(h8) Hotel - a building, edifice or premises or a completely independent paft thereof,
which is used for the regular reception, accommodation or lodging for travelers and
tourists and the provision of seruices incidental thereto for a fee.
h8.a. De Luxe - luxurious, elegant or expensive hotel that is complete with all
the facilities and amenities pertaining to hotel establishments.
hg.b. First Class - a hotel of high quality but of inferior quality to De Luxe
Hotels in terms of facilities and amenities.

Ord. No. 0291-17
hS.c.Standard - a sound and usable but not of top quality hotel conforming to
the standards established by custom and law.
h8.d.Economy - thrifly and efficient hote!
(h9) Hotel, Apartnent- an apartment house which may furnish dining room seruice and
other services for the exclusive use of its tenants.
(i)
Importer - means any person who brings articles, goods, wares or merchandise of
any kind or class into the Philippines from abroad, for unloading therein, or which after
such entry are consumed herein to become incorporated into the general mass of property
in the Philippines. In the case of tax-free afticles brought or impofted into the Philippines
by persons; entities, or exchanged in the Philippines to non-exempt private persons or
entities, the purchaserc or recipients shall be conoidered,impofters thereof.
(i1) Imprint - a plaque or sticker or lettering to be painted on either the top or the
bottom of the poster or sign as a means of identifying the company to whom the structure
belongs and the permits issued therefore.
(i2) Inbound Tour - is a tour to or of the Philippines or any place within the Philippines
(i3) Incombustible - as applied to building construction materials, as material which, in
form it is used, is either one of the following:
(a) Material having a structural base of incombustible material not over 3.2
millimeters thick which has a flamed-spread rating of fifty (50) or less.
(b)"Incombustible" does not apply to surface finish materials. Material required to
be incombustible for reduced clearance to flues, heating appliances, or other
materials shall refer to material conforming to the provisions of this Code. No
material shall be classified as incombustible which is subject to increase in
combustibility or flame-spread rating beyond the limits herein established,
through the effects of age, moisture, or other atmospheric conditions.
(i4) Incombustible {ulaterial - tryhefl refened to as structural material, rn€ans brick,
stone, terracotta, concrete, iron, steel, sheet metal, or tiles used either singly or in
combination.
(i5) Incombustible Roofittg - a paftition plastered on both sides upon metal lath or wire
cloth for the full height, and fire-stopped between the studs with incombustible material
twenty (20) centimeters above the floor and at the ceiling.
(i6) Intemational Derby - refers to an invitational cockfight pafticipated in by local and
foreign game cockers or cockfighting "afficionados" with "pot money'' awarded to the
proclaimed winning entry.
(i7) Internet - refers to the interactive communication and information technology
sourced through computers.

Ord. No. 0291-L7
(i8) Internet Cafd - means a business establishment using the worldwide web or
Internet system that enable users to view and interact with a variety of information
accessed through a computer connected to a Local Area Network (LAN).
(i9) Internet Seruice Provider (ISP) - refers to a local or national network provider of
Internet seruices.
(j)
Jai-Alai- means a place, usually enclosed and built for the purpose, where pelotari
game is played and money is bet on the game.
(j1) lukebox - means a musical instrument mechanically devised for the purpose
of furnishing music for compensation.
(l)
LTFRB- the Land Transportation Franchising and Regulatory Board of the Republic
of the Philippines.
(lL) LTO- the Land Transportation Office of the Republic of the Philippines.
(12) Large Cattle - includes horses, mules, aases, carabaos, cows, and other domestic
members of the bovine family.
(13) Large Enterprix - an enterprise with an asset size of over Ten Million Pesos
(P10,000,000.00).
(14) Lending Investor- refers to a corporation which makes a practice of lending money
with corresponding interest subject to limitations provided for under R.A.9474. otherwise
known as the Lending Company Regulation of 2007.
05/ Levy- means an imposition or collection of an assessment, tax, fee, charge, or fine.
(16) License or Permit - is a right or permission granted in accordance with law or by a
competent authority to engage in some business or occupation or to engage in some
transactions.
(17) Uen - a charge upon real or personal propefi for the satisfaction of some debt or
duty ordinarily arising by operation of law.
(18) Line, Building - the line formed by the intersection of the outer sudace of the
enclosing wall of the building and the sufface of the ground.
(19) Lintel -the beam or girder placed over an opening in a wall, which supports the wall
construction above.
(110) LoaQ Dead - the weight of the permanent portions of a building or structure; it
includes the weight of the walls, permanent paftitions, framing, floors, rooB, and all other
permanent and stationary fixtures, mechanism, and other construction entering into and
becoming a part of a building or structure.
(111) Loa4 Lateral-that load caused by winds, earthquakes, or other dynamic forces.

f
Ord. No. 029t-L7
(112) Loa4 Live -the weight of the contents of a building or structure; it includes all loads
except dead and lateral, and weight of temporary partitions, Gses, counters, and similar
equipment and all loads imposed due to the occupancy of the building or structure.
(113) LoaQ Occupant -the total number of persons that may occupy a building or portion
thereof at any one time.
(114) Local Derby- an invitational cockfight participated in by game cockers or cockfighting
"afficionados" of the Philippines with "pot money" awarded to the proclaimed winning entry.
(115) Local Government- includes provinces, cities, municipalities and barangays.
(116) Lodging House/ Lessorc of Real Estate includes any house or building or poftion
thereof, in which any persion or persons may be regularly harbored or received as
transients for compensation. Taverns or inns shall be considered as lodging house; any
building or poftion thereof, containing not more than five (5) guest rooms which are used by
not more than five (5) guests where rent is. paid in money, goods, labor or otherwise.
(117) Long-Haul Trip - travel of considerable distance in terms of period of time, which
shall be measured at a minimum of four (4) hours from point of embarkation to final
destination.
(!18) Lot - a parcel of land on which a principal building and its accessories are placed or
may be placed together with the required open spaces. A lot may or may not be the land
designated as lot on recorded plot.
(!19) Lot, Corner -a lot situated atthe junction of two or more streets forming an angle
of not more than one hundred thifi-five degrees (135").
(120) Lot, Depth of -the average horizontal distance between the front and the rear lot
lines.
(121) Lol Front -the front boundary Iine of a lot bordering on the street and in the case
of a corner lot, it may be either frontage.
(122) Lol inside - a lot fronting on but one street or public alley and the remaining sides
bounded by lot lines.
(123) Lot Line -the line of demarcation between either public and private property.
(124) Lot Open -a Iot bounded on all sides by street lines.
(125) Lot, Wdth of -the average horizontal distance between the side lot lines.
(m) Magazine and/or Newspaper Stand - means an outdoor stall or center where
newspapers, periodicals and/or other reading materials are sold and may include as
items for sale, cigars and cigarettes, sweepstakes tickets only and no other commodity,
provided a separate permit fee is paid for the retail of cigar and cigarettes as provided in
this Code.

Ord. No. 029L-L7
(m1) Manufacturer- includes every person who for the purpose of sale or distribution
to others and not for his own use or consumption, by physical or chemica! process; (1)
alters the exterior texture or form or inner substance of any raw materials, or
manufactured or partially manufactured products in such manner as to prepare it for a
special use or uses to which it could not have been put in its original condition; or (2)
alters the quality of any raw materials, or manufactured or partially manufactured
products so as to reduce it to marketable shape or prepare it for any use or industry, or
(3) combines any raw materials, or products of the same or of different kind in such
manner that the finished product of such process or manufacture can be put to a special
use or uses to which such materials, or manufactured or paftially manufactured
products in its original condition could not have been put.
(m2) Manufacturer of Cigarc or Cigarettes - includes those whose business it is to make
or manufacture cigars or cigarettes or both for sale or who employs others to make or
manufacture cigars or cigarettes for sale; but the term does not include aftisans or
apprentices employed to make cigars or cigarettes from materials supplied by the
employer, the latter being lawfully engaged in the manufacture of cigars or cigarettes.
(m3) Manufactured Tobacco Products - include cigars, cigarettes, chewing tobacco and
snuff and all other forms, of manufactured and paftially manufactured tobacco.
(m4) Manufacturer of Tobacco - includes every person whose business is to manufacture
tobacco or snuff, or who employs others to manufacture tobacco or snuff, who
whether such manufacture be by cutting, pressing, grinding or rubbing any raw or
leaf tobacco, or otherwise preparing raw or leaf tobacco or manufactured or paftially
manufactured tobacco and snuff, or putting for consumption scraps, refuse or stems
of tobacco resulting from any waste by shifting, twisting, screening or by any other
process.
(m5) Marginal Fanner or Fisherman - refers to an individual engaged in subsistence
farming or fishing which shal! be limited to the sale, bafter or exchange of agricultural or
marine products produced by himself and his immediate family, and whose annual net
income from fishing does not exceed Fifty Thousand Pesos (P 50,000.00) or the poverty
line established by NEDA for the pafticular region or locality whichever is higher.
(m6) Market Committee - refers to the body whose duty is to conduct the drawing of Iots
and opening of bids in connection with the adjudication of vacant or newly constructed
stalls in the City Markets and to ceftiff to the City Mayor the results thereof.
(m7) Market Premises - refers to any open space in the market compound; paft of
the market lot consisting of bare ground not covered by market buildings, usually occupied
by transient vendors especially during market days.
(mB) Market Rental Fee - refers to the fee paid to and collected by the City Treasurer for
the privilege of using public market facilities.
(m9) Market SECTION - refers to contiguous stalls/ booths/ spaces in the market classified
according to the kind of merchandise offered for sale therein;
m9.1 Fish SECTION - refers to the area where only fresh fish, clams, oyster, crabs,
lobsterc, shrimps, seaweeds and other seafoods and marine products shall be sold;

No 029t-L7
m9.2 Meat SECTION - refers to the area where only all kinds of meat and other
meat products shall be sold, provided, that meat, pork and dressed chicken shall be
separately displayed and properly labeled;
m9.3 Dry Goods SECTION - refers to the area where only all kinds of textiles,
ready-made dresses and native products, toiletries, novelties, footwears, laces
kitchenwares, utensils, and other household afticles, handbags and school and other
supplies shall be sold;
m9.4 Groceries SECTION - refers to the area where only all kinds of cakes, biscuits,
pastries, crackers, butter, cheese, confections, candies, canned or bottled foods,
beverages, softdrinks, cigarettes, flour, oatmeal, ham, bacon, sugar, nuts, sauce, onions,
garlic, potatoes, €ggs, sausages, starch, smoked fish, dried fish, salt, feeds, soap, mongo
and the like, and other household and food products shall be sold;
m9.5 Rice and Corn SECTION - refers to the area where purely rice, corn and other
cereals shall be sold;
m9.6 Vegetables and Fruit SECTION - refers to the area where only all kinds of
vegetables, fruits, coconuts and root crops such as sweet potatoes, cassava, garlic and the
like shall be sold;
m9.7 Eatery SECTION - refgrs to the area where only all kinds of cooked/ prepared
food shall be sold. This includes refreshment parlors, cafeterias, and other delicacies;
m9.8 Poultry and Livestock Products SECTION - refers to the area where only Iive
chickens, ducK, turkeys, other fowls and birds, suckling and piglets and other like
products, shall be sold;
m9.9 Flower Shop SECTION - refers to the area where only all kinds of flowers
whether fresh or aftificial flowers, pots, and other materials needed in floral arrangements
shall be sold;
m9.10 Cold Storage Service SECTION - refers to the area where only refrigeration
seruices shall be made available and the sale of ice in whatever form shall be conducted;
m9.ll Miscellaneous SECTION - refers to the area where any other business not
classified herein above shall be allowed;
(m10) Market Stall - refers to any specific space or booth in the public market where
merchandise is sold or offered for sale, or intended for such purposes in the public market.
(m11) Masonry - a form of construction composed of stone, brick, concrete, gypsum,
hollow clay tile, concrete block or tile, or other similar building units or materials or
combination of these materials laid up unit and set in a moftar.
(m12) Masonry Solid - masonry of solid units built without hollow spaces.
(m13) Masonry unit - brick, block, tile, stone, or other similar building unit or combination
thereof, made to be bounded together by a cementation agent.
Page
Ord.

Ord. No. 029L-L7
(m14) Medium Enterprise - an enterprise with an asset size of Two Million to Ten Million
Pesos (Pz-M to P10-M).
(m15) Mercantile Agenry - is any person engaged in the business of gathering
information as to the financial standing ability, or credit of persons engaged in the
business, and repofting the same to subscribers or to customers applying and paying
therefore.
(m16) Mezanine or Mezanine Floor -a paftial intermediate floor in any storey or room of
a building having an area not more than one-half (U2) of the area of the room or space in
which it is constructed.
(m17) Minerals - refers to a!! naturally occurring inorganic substances (found in nature)
whether in solid, liquid, gaseous or any intermediate state including coal. Soil which supports
organic life, sand and gravel, guano, petroleum, geothermal energy and natural gas are
included in this term but are governed by special laws.
(m18) Mineral Lands - are lands in which minerals, metallic or non-metallic, exist in
sufficient quantity or grade to justiry the necessary expenditures to extract and utilize such
materials.
(m19) Mineral ProducB - shall mean things produced and prepared in a workable state by
simple treatnent processes such as washing or drying but without undergoing any chemical
change or proc€ss or manufacturing by the Iessee, concessionaire or owner of mineral lands.
(m20) Money Shop - is an extension seruice unit of a banking institution usually operating
in public markets with authority to accept money for deposit and extend short-term loans
for specific purposes.
(m21) Motorist hotel (Motel) - any structure with several separate units, primarily located
along the highway with individual or common parking space at which motorists may obtain
lodging and, in some instances, meals.
It includes any house or building, or poftion thereof, in which any person or
persons may be regularly harbored or received as transients or guest and which is
provided with a common enclosed garage or individually enclosed garages where such
transients or guests may park their motor vehicles.
(m22) Motorhed Triqcle - is a motor vehicle propelled other than by muscular power,
composed of a motorrycle fitted with a single wheel sidecar or a motorcycle with a two
wheeled cab, the former having a total of four wheels, otherwise known as the motorela.
(m23) Motorized Triqcle Operator's Permit (MTOP) - is a document granting franchise or
license to a person, natural or juridical, allowing him to operate trirycles-for-hire over
specified zones.
(m24) Motor Vehicle - means any vehicle propelled by any power other than muscular
power using the public roads, but excepting road rollers, trolley/cars, street sweepe6,
sprinklers, lawn mowers, bulldozers, graders, forklifts, amphibian trucks, and cranes if not
used on public roads, vehicles which run only on rails or track and tractors, trailers and
traction engines of all kinds used exclusively for agricultural purposes.

Ord. No. 029L-t7
(m25) Mouing - the transfer of any building/structure or poftion(s) thereof from its
original location or position to another, either within the same lot or to different one.
(m25) Museum - is an institutional establishment where a collection of valuable objects
and aftifacts on history and culture, afts and sciences are put on exhibition for the general
public.
(n) National Derby -means a cockfight promotion with nationwide pafticipants.
(n1) National Homestay Program - is a program of the Department of Tourism which
provides travelers with comfoftable accommodations with Filipino families in areas near
tourist attractions.
(n2) National. Wealth - refers to all natural resources situated within the Philippine
territorial jurisdiction including lands public domain, waters, minerals, coal, petroleum,
mineral oils, potential energy forces or sources, gas and oil deposits, forest products,
wildlife, flora and fauna, fishery and aquatic resources, and a!! quarry products.
(n3) Neon Sign - a discharged lamp where the neon tube contains a large proportion of
neon gas, made/outlined to project letters or characters for the purpose of adveftising.
(n4) Night or Day Club - includes places frequented at nights or days, as the case
maybe, where foods, wines, and drinks are serued and music is furnished by the operator
and the patrons are allowed to dance with their own paftners or with hostesses furnished
by the management.
(n5) Non-banking financial intermediaries - shall refer to persons or entities whose
principal functions include lending, investing or placement of funds or evidences of
indebtness or equity deposited with them, acquired by them or otherwise coursed through
them, either for their own account or for the account of others.
It includes the following:
(1) A person or entity licensed and/or registered with any government
regulatory body as a non-bank financial intermediary, such as investment house,
investment company, financing company, securities dealer/broker, lending investor,
pawnshop, money broker, fund manager, cooperative, insurance company, nonstock savings and loan association and building and loan association.
(2) A person or entity which holds itself out as a non-banking financial
intermediary, such as by the use of a business name, which includes the term
financing, finance, investment, lending, and/or any word/phrase of similar import
which connotes financial intermediation, or an entity which adveftises itself as a
financial intermediary and is engaged in the function(s) where financial
intermediation is implied.
(3) A person or entity performing any of the following functions, to wit: a).
Receive funds from one (1) group of persons, irrespective of number, through
traditional deposits, or issuance of debt or equity securities; and make
available/lend these funds to another person or entity, and in the process acquire
debt or equity securities; b). Use principally the funds received for acquiring various

Ord. No. 029L-L7
types of debt or equity securities; c). Borrow against, or lend on, or buy or sell debt
or equity securities; d). Hold assets consisting principally of debt or equity securities
such as promissory notes, bills of exchange, mortgages, stocks, bonds, and
commercial papers; e). Realize regular income in the nature of, but need not be
Iimited to, interest, discounts, capital gains, undenruriting fees, guarantees , fees,
commissions, and seruice fees, principally from the transactions in debt or equity
securities or by being an intermediary between suppliers and users of funds.
Provided, however, that a person or entity which has no other business operations
other than subscribing, investing, purchasing, holding, or owning a shares of stocks
of another corporation is deemed a non-bank financial intermediary.
(n6) Non-Conforming Building - a building which does not conform with the regulations
of the district where it is situated as to height, yard requirement, lot area, and percentage
of occupanry.
(n7) Non-Conforming Use - the use of any building or land or any portion of such
building or land which does not conform with the use and regulation of the zone where it
is situated.
(o) Occupancy - the purpose for which the building is used or intended to be used.
The term shall also include the building or room housing such use. Change of occupanry
is not intended to include change of tenants or proprietors.
(o1) Occupation - means one's regular business or employment or an activity
which principally takes up one's time, thought, and energies. It includes any calling,
business, trade, profession or vocation.
(o2) Occupation Fee - is a fee payable by any Iocator or occupant of any mining claim.
(o3) Operator - includes the owner, manager, adminisfrator, or any other person who
operates or is responsible for the operation of a business establishment or undeftaking.
(o4) Oppressive means unreasonably burdensome, unjustly severe or harsh.
(o5) Owner - any person, company, or corporation owning the propefi or properties
under consideration or the receiver or trustee thereof.
(p) Panic Hardware - a bar which extends across at least one-half the width of each
door !eaf, which will open the door if subjected to pressure.
(p1) Partition - an interior subdividing wal!
(p2) Passenger Accommodation Area
cabin/sleeping area.
is a passenger seating area and/or
(p3) Passenger Ship - is any vessel which is authorized to carry more than twelve (12)
passengers as fufther defined in the Philippine Merchant Marine Rules and Regulations.

No 029L-L7
(p4) Pawnbroker - includes every person engaged in granting loans or deposits or
pledges of personal propefi on the condition of returning the same at a stipulated price;
displaying at his place of business three gilt of yellow bills or exhibiting a sign of money to
loan on personal propefi or pledge; or otherwise engaged in the business known as
pawnbroker.
(p5) Peddler- means any person, who either for himself or on commission, travels from
place to place and sells his goods or offers to sell and deliver the same. Whether a
peddler is a wholesale peddler or a retail peddler of a pafticular commodity shall
be determined from the definitions of wholesale dealer or retail dealer as provided in this
Code.
(p6) Peddler, Hawker or Hustler - includes any person, whether adult or minor,
who peddles or hawks goods, wares, merchandise, or any afticles, in any manner, from
place to place; or one who offers for sale afticles without any regular fixed and established
place of business in Davao City.
(p7) Pedicab (Pedaloperatd tricycle) - otherwise known as" trisikads" is a vehicle having
three (3) wheels and operated by means of a pedal to include bicycle with sidecar.
(p8) Pedicab for commercial us - is being used to transport commercial goods of its owner
for delivery to customers.
(p9) Pediab for hire - is belng used in transporting passengerc, goods or both for a fee.
(p10) Piuate Pdicab - is one being used by its owner for transport of his own goods and
for personal use.
(p11) Pension House - a private or family-operated tourist boarding house, tourist guest
house or tourist lodging house employing non-professional domestic helpers regularly
conducting several independent lettable rooms, providing common facilities such as toilets,
bathrooms/showers, living and dining rooms and/or kitchen and where a combination of
board and lodging may be provided.
(p12) Percistent Sidewalk Vendorc or Percistent Vendorc - are vendors who are engaged in
business of vending or selling goods continuously despite the opposition or prohibition of the
government.
(p13) Persons - mean every natural or juridical being, susceptible of rights and obligations
or of being the subject of legal relations.
(p14) Pilaster - a poftion of the wall which projects on one or both sides and acts as a
vertical beam, a column, or both.
(p15) Pilaster, Poriland Cement - a mixture of Poftland Cement, or Poftland Cement and
lime, and aggregate and other approved materia! as specified.
(p15) Plastiq Approved - plastic materials which have a flame spread rating of two hundred
twenty-five (225) or less.
Page
Ord.

Ord. No. 029t-L7
(p17) Platbrm, Enclosd - a partially enclosed portion of an assembly room the ceiling of
which is not more than one and one-half (1.5) meterc above the proscenium opening and
which is designed or used for the presentation of plays, demonstrations, and other
enteftainment wherein scenery drops, decorations, of the effects may be installed or used.
(p18) Pleasure Yacht - is any vessel, which is used for pleasure only as defined in the
Philippine Merchant Marine Rules and Regulations.
(p19) Pit Manager - refers to a person who professionally, regularly and habitually manages
a cockpit and cockfights therein. He may or may not be the owner of the cockpit.
(p20) Poster -a fabricated fiat suface upon which a message is either posted or painted
(p21) Privately-Owned or Operated Public MarkeB- means those established by a private
fund and operated by private persons, natural or juridical, under government permit.
(p22) Piuate Place - includes privately-owned streets or yards, rice fields or farmlands, or
lots owned by an individual.
(p23) Privilege - means a right or immunity granted as a peculiar benefit, advantage or
favor.
(p24) Producer -means essentially the same as "Manufacturer" except that it is more
commonly used to denote a person who raises agricultural crops and puts them in a
condition for the market.
(p25) Profession - means a calling which requires the passing of an appropriate
government board or bar examination such as the practice of law, medicine, public
accountancy, engineering, etc.
(p25) Professional Dancing Paftner- includes any person employed in entertainment
establishments who offers himself or herself as dancing partner for a fee.
(p27) Projecting Sign - a sign fastened to, suspended from or suppofted on a building or
structure the display suface of which is perpendicular from the wall sufface or is at an
angle therefrom.
(p28) Promoter - a person who is engaged in the convening, meeting, holding and
celebration of specially programmed and arranged cockfighting like local and international
derbies or competitions, special mains or matches or encounter, pintakasi and ordinary
fights or hack fights.
(p29) Public Market- refers to any place, building or structure of any kind recognized as
such under existing laws or ordinances and those to be established upon recommendation
of the local government concerned. It embraces all market stalls, tiendas, buildings,
roads, subways, waterways drainage and other connections, parking spaces, and other
appuftenances thereto.
(p30) Public Place - includes national, city, or barangay streets, parks, plazas, and such
other places open to the public.

Ord. No. 029L-17
(p31) Public Way - a parcel of land unobstructed from the ground to the sky, more than
three (3) meters in width, appropriated to he free passage of the general public.
(q) Quarry Resources - means any common stone or other common mineral substances
such as but not restricted to marble, granite, volcanic cinders, basalt, tuff, and rock
phosphate.
(r) Race Track - includes any place or compound, where exhibitions or trials of peed
for a purse or price consideration are run by the competitors usually on horse or any other
animal, or powered conveyances such as trucK, automobiles or race cars.
(r1) Real Estate Broker - includes any percon, other than a real estate
salesman as hereinafter defined, who for another, and for a compensatlon or in the
expectation or promise of receiving compensation; (1) sells or offers, for sale, buys
or offers to buy, lists of solicits for prospective purchasers, or negotiates the purchase,
sale or exchange of rea! estate or interest therein; (2) or negotiates loans on real estate;
(3) or leases or offers to lease or negotiates the sale, purchase or exchange of a lease or
rents or places for rent or collects rent from real estate or improvements thereon; (4)
or shall be employed by or on behalf of the owner or owners of lots or other parcels of
real estate on salary, on commission, or otherwise to sell such real estate or any parts
thereof in lots or parcels. "Real Estate Salesman" means any natural person regularly
employed by a real estate broker to perform in behalf of such broker any or all of the
functions of real estate broker. One act of a character embraced within the above
definition shall constitute the person pefforming or attempting to perform the same real
estate broker. But the foregoing definitions do not include a person who shall directly
perform any of the acts aforesaid with reference to his own propefi. Where such acts
are pefformed in the regular course of or as acting pursuant to a duly executed power of
attorney from the owner authorizing final consummation by peformance of a contract
conveying real estate by sale, mortgage or lease; nor shall they apply to any
receiver, trustee or assignee in bankruptcy or insolvency, or to any person acting pursuant
to the order of any court; nor to a trustee selling under a deed of trust.
(rZ) Real Estate Dealer - includes any person engaged in the business of buying, selling,
exchanging leasing or renting property as principal and holding himself out as a full or
paft-time dealer in real estate or as an owner of rental propefi or propefties rented or
offers to rent for an aggregate amount of One Thousand Pesos (P1,000.00) or more a
year. Any person shall be considered as engaged in business as real estate dealer by the
mere fact that he is the owner or sub-lessor of property rented or offered to rent for an
aggregate amount of One Thousand Pesos or more a year; provided however, that an
owner of sugar lands subject to tax under Commonwealth Act No. 567, shall not be
considered as a real estate dealer under this definition.
G3) Real Propefty- referc only to landq building and machineries intended by the owner
of the land or building for an industy or work which may be carried on in a building or on a
land and which tend directly to meet the needs of the said industry or works.
(r4) Recital -a peformance by one or two players or by a string quaftet.

Ord. No. 029L-L7
(r5) Rectifrer - any person who rectifies, purifies or refines distilled spirits or wines by
any process other than by original and continuous distillation from mask, wort, wash, or
syrup through continuous closed vessels and pipes until the manufacture thereof is
complete. Every wholesale or retail Iiquor dealer who has in his possession any still or
mash tub, or who keeps any other apparatus for the purpose of distilling spirits, or in any
manner refining distilled spirits, shall also be regarded as a rectifier and as being engaged
in the business of rectifying.
(r5) Refere (Sentenciador) - refers to a person who watches and oversees the proper
gaffing of fighUng cocks; determines the physical condition of gamecocks while cockfighting
is in progress; the injuries sustained by the cocks and their capability to conUnue fighting;
and, decides and make known his decision either by word or gesture the result of the
cockfighting by announcing the winner or deciding a tie in a contest game.
(r7) Refrigerating - means the storage or keeping of afticles at a temperature not to
exceed forty (40) degrees Fahrenheit above zero (0) degree in a refrigerating case.
(r8) Regional Derby - means a cockfight promotion with participants from a pafticular
region.
(B) Rqular Cockfigh9 - means a cockfight held on Sundays and/or legal holidays.
(r10) Remaining Value - is the value coresponding to the remaining useful life of the
machiriery.
(r11) Renovation -any physical change made on a building/structure to increase its value,
utility and/or to improve its aesthetic quality.
(r12) Rental- means the value of the consideration, whether in money, or othenruise, given
for the enjoyment or use of a thing.
(r13) Repacker of Wnes or Distilled Spirits - includes all persons who remove wines or
distilled spirits from the original containers for repacking and selling the same at
wholesale.
(r1a) Repair - the reconstruction and renewal of any paft of an existing building for the
purpose of restoring the same to its original condition and for maintenance. The word
"repair" shall not apply to any change of construction.
(r15) Residents - refer to natural persons who have their habitual residence in the province,
city, or municipality where they exercise their civil righE and fulfill their civil obligations, and
to juridical persons for which the law or any other provision creating or recognizing them
fixes their residence in a pafticular province, city or municipality. In the absence of such
laws, juridical persons are residents of the province, city or municipality where they have
their legal residence or principal place of business or where they conduct their principal
business or occupation;
(116) Residential Property - real propefi principally devoted to habitation.

Ord. No. 029t-t7
(rL7) Resoft -any place or places with pleasant environment and atmosphere conducive
to comfoft, healthful relaxation and rest, offering food, sleeping accommodation and
recreational facilities to the public for a fee or remuneration.
(r18) Restaurant - refers to any place which provides food to the public and accepts
orders from them at a price. This term includes caterers.
(r19) Retail- means a sale where the purchaser buys the commodity for his consumption
irrespective of the quantity of the commodity sold.
(r20) Retail Dealer in Fermented Liquor - includes every person, except retail dealers of
tuba, basi and tapuy, who for himself or on commission sells or offers for sale fermented
liquors in quantities of five liters or less at any one time and not for resale.
(r21) Retail Leaf Tobacco Dealer - includes every person who for himself or on
commission sells leaf tobacco or offers the same for sale to any person except a registered
dealer in leaf tobacco or a manufacturer of cigars, cigarettes or manufactured tobacco but
the term does not include a planter or producer so far as concerns the sale of leaf tobacco
of his own production.
(r22) Retail Liquor Dealer - includes every person except a retail vino dealer, who for
himself or on commission sells or offers for sale wine or distilled spirits (other than
denatured alcohol) in quantities of five liters or less at any one time and not for resale.
(r23) Retail Wne Dealer - includes every person who for himself or on commission
sells or offers for sale only domestic distilled spirits in quantities of five liters or less at any
one time and not for resale.
G24) Revenue - includes taxes, fees and charges that a state or its political subdivision
collects and receives into the treasury for public purposes.
(r25) Roof Sign -any sign installed on rooft, roof deck, parapets or eaves.
(s) ftruices - mean the duties, work or functions peformed or discharged by a
government officer, or by a private person contracted by the government as the case may
be.
(s1) Shaft - a veftical opening through a building for elevators, dumbwaiters, mechanical
equipment or similar purposes.
(s2) Shop- is a small retail establishment offering a line of goods or seryices.
(s3) Shopping Center - means a building, establishment, or a ptace or paft thereof,
leased to several different persons but not less than ten (10) persons to be used
principally by them, separately for selling, assofted, non-perishable and dry goods,
merchandise or articles including refrigerated goods.
(s4) Short-Haul Trip - is the travel of a considerable distance in terms of period of time,
which shall be measured at a maximum of four (4) hours from point of embarkation to
final destination.

Ord. No. 0291-17
(s5) Show Wndow -a store window in which goods are displayed
(s6) Sign - any letter, word, numeral, pictorial presentation, illustration, decoration,
emblem, device, symbol or trademark, flag banner, or pennant, or any other figure of
similar character that is; attached to, painted on or in any manner represented on a
building or structure; used to announce, direct attention to or advertise and visible to the
public.
(s7) Signboard - a broad flat piece of wood or other material bearing information and/or
adveftising less than six (6) square meters in area.
(s8) Sign Stand -any movable structure upon which a sign is mounted or suppofted.
(s9) Sign Strudure - that which is built or constructed, an edifice or building of any
kind, or any piece of work artificially built up or composed of pafts joined together in some
definite manner.
(s10) Skating Rink- includes any private place or compound where, for a fee or
compensation, the customers are allowed to skate in or around the place.
(s11) Slum - blighted area; eyesore; an area where the values of real estate tend to
deteriorate because of the dilapidated, obsolescent, and unsanitary condition of the
building within the area; any eyesore is a building or area which is markedly unpleasant to
look at.
(s12) Small Enterprise - an enterprise with an asset size of 'Five llundred Thousand Pesos
(P500,000.00) to Two Million Pesos (P2,000,000.00).
(s13) Socalq Masonry -the wall between the bottom of the window sill and the ground.
(s14) Soda Fountain/Refreshment Parlor - includes all places where refreshment and/or
drinks are serued, provided that, in such places, there is a counter stand with chairs and
where customers are not permitted to congregate and loiter within the premises, such as
in bars, and saloons or in restaurants and public eating places.
(s15) Soffit -the underside of a beam,linteil, or revea'|.
(s16) Special Cockfights - means a cocKight held on days other than Sundays and legal
holidays for special purposes.
(s17) Special Cockfrght Permft- means a permit secured from the SANGGUNIANG
Panlungsod to hold cocKighting on days other than Sundays and legal holidays.
(sl8) Spor$ and Recreational Club/Center - is any establishment offering spofts and
recreational facilities to tourists and to the general public.
(s19) Stable - any structure designed and intended for the enclosure, shelter, or
protection of any horse, carabao, or other cattle.
(s20) Stabtq Commercial- a stable wherein the animals are kept for business, racing or
breeding purposes.

Ord. No. 029L-17
(s21) Stage - a paftially enclosed portion of an assembly building which is designed or
used for the presentation of plays, demonstrations, or other entertainment wherein
scenery, drops or other effects may be installed or used, and where the distance between
the top of the proscentum opening and the ceiting above the stage ts more than 'one and
one-half (1.5) meters.
(s22) Stall - refers to any allotted space or booth in the public market where merchandise
of any kind is sold or offered for sale.
(s23) Stallholder - refers to the awardees of a definite space within a public market that
pays rentals thereon for the purpose of selling his/her goods/commodities or seruices.
(s24) Stairway -two or more riser shal! constitute a stairway.
(s25) Stairway, Private -a stairway sewing onetenant only.
(s26) Stockbroker- includes all persons whose business is for themselves as such brokers
or for other brokers, to negotiate purchases or sales of stocks, bond, exchange, bullion,
coined money, bank notes, promissory notes, or other securities; but does not include
underwriters of one or more investment companies as defrned in the Invesffitent Company
AcU "Dealer in Securities" includes all persons who for their own account are engaged in
the sale of stoclg bond, exchange, bullion, coined money, bank notes, promissory notes,
or other securities.
(s27) Stsrey -that portion sf buitding inc{uded beharcen tfie upp.er sltface of any floor:
and the upper suface of the floor next above, except the topmost floor and ceiling or roof
above. If the finished floor level directly above a basement, cellar or unused under floor
space is more than 3.5 meters above grade as defined herein at any point such
basement, cellar or unused under floor space shall be considered as a storey.
(s28) Storey, Height of - the perpendicular distance from top to top on two (2)
successive floors, floor beams, or joists. The clear height of a storey or a room is the
distance from the floor to the ceiling. The clear height of balconies is measured from the
highest point of the sidewalk grade to the underside of the balcony floor joists. If these
joists are sealedr th,is elear hergfrt measwed to the underside of the eeiling..
(s29) Streamer - any adveftising material made of light substance such as cloth, canvas,
plastic and the like, hanged or installed outdoor for public view.
(s30) Street - any thoroughfare or public space which has been dedicated or deeded to
the public for public use.
(s31) Structure - that which is built or constructed, an edifice or building of any kind, or
any piece of work aftificially built up or composed of parts joined together in some definite
manner,
(s32) Structural Frame - the framing system including the columns and the girders,
beams, trusses, and spandrels having direct connections to the stability of the building as
a whole. The members of floor or roof which have no connection to the columns shall be
considered secondary and not a part of the structural frame.
(s33) Supper of Family Club - includes any establishment where food and dilnks are
serued to its patrons to the accompaniment of music furnished by such establishment with

Ord. No. 029L-L7
musicians under its employ or by jukeboxes installed within its premises and where
patrons are allowed to dance with paftners whom they bring along but not hostesses as in
the case of night clubs and bars.
(s34) Suportales - the veftical supports, such as posts or stanchions, as used in
indigenous or traditional type of construction. These may be freestanding as stilts or
integrated into the wal! structure. In case of the former, pie de gallos (knee Braces) or
corsettas (cross bracings) are sometimes used.
(s35) Surface, Exterior- weather-exposed suface.
(s36) Surfacq Interior +ther than weather-exposed surface.
(s37) Surfacq 'Weafhen'Exposed - all surfaces of walls, ceilings, floors, roofr, soffrts, and
similar surfaces exposed to the weather except the following:
(a) Ceiling and roof soffits enclosed by walls, or by beams extending to a minimum
of three hundred (300) millimeters below such ceiling or roof soffits;
@) WaTls or poftions of walls within an unenclosed roof area, when located in a
horizontal distance from an exterior opening equal to twice the height of the
opening; and
(c) Ceiling and roof soffits beyond a horizontal distance of three (3) meters from
the outer edge of the ceiling or roof soffits.
(t)
Tax - means an enforced contribution, usually monetary in form, levied by the
lawmaking body on persons and propefi subject to its jurisdiction for the precise purpose of
suppofting governmental needs.
(tI) Temporary9gn - a sign of iloth or other light and/or combust[ble material, wlth or
without frame, installed for a limlted period of time.
(t2) Theater or Cinema Hous* includes any place, edifice, building or enclosure
where motion pictures are exhibited and/or presentation of plays or other shows including
performances, stage shows, musical or dramatic Shows, concefts, gymnastic or acrobatic
feats are held.
(t3) Tour guide - is an individual who guides tourists, both foreign and domestic, for a
fee, commission, or any other form of lawful remuneration.
(t4) Tour operator- is an entity which may either be a single proprietorship, paftnership
or corporation regularly engaged in the business of extending to individuals or groups,
such seruices peftaining to arrangements and bookings for transpoftation and/or
accommodation, handling and/or conduct of inbound tours whether or not for a fee,
commission, or any form of compensation.
(t5) Tourism-Oriented and Related EstablishmenB - refer to those that do business
regarding and catering to tourism industry which includes among others restaurants,
depaftment stores, shops, sports and recreational clubs/centers, museums, training
centers,'homestays, rest areas in gasoline stations.

Ord. No. 029L-17
(t6) Tourism-Oriented and Related Occupation - means one's regular business or
employment, or an activity, which principally takes up one's time, thought and energy. It
includes any calling, business, trade, profession or vocation regarding and relating to
tourism industry.
(t7) Tourist Air Transport- is any air conveyance catering to tourists
(tB) Tourist Inn - a lodging establishment catering to transients, which does not meet
the minimum requirements of an economy hotel.
(R) Tourist Land Transport Operator - is a person or entity which may either be a
single proprietorship, paftnership or corporation, regularly engaged in providing for a fee
or lawful consideration, tourist transport seruices as herein defined, either on chafter or
regular run.
(t10) Tourist Water Transport- is any watercraft catering to tourists.
(t11) Training Center- is any establishment, which offers one or more training programs
for tourism manpower development and which is equipped with training facilities,
equipment and instructional Staff.
(t12) Training Program- is a module designed for tourism manpower development.
(t13) Trainor - is any individual who conducts training programs as specified in the
preceding paragraph.
(t14) Travel Agency -an agency engaged in selling and arranging persona! transpoftation
and accommodation for travelers.
(t15) Travel Agent - a person engaged in selling and arranging transpoftation tours or
trips for travelers.
(t16) Trirycle For Hire - is a vehicle composed of a motorcycle fitted with a single-wheel
sidecar or a motorrycle with a two-whee! cab operated to render transport seruices to the
general public for a fee.
(t17) Triryile Operatorc -are persons engaged in the business of operating tricycles.
(u) Unjust- means deficient in justice and fairness.
(u1) Utilization and Development- refers to the use or employment of improvement for
practical expenditure and profitable measures.
(v) Value or Valuation of a building -the estimated cost to replace the building in kind,
based on current replacement costs.
(v1) Vault - any sudace or underground construction covered on top, or any fire-proof
construction intended for the storage of valuables.

Ord. No. 029t-L7
(v2) Veneer Adhered -veneer secured and supported by approved mechanical fasteners
attached to an approved backing suppofted through adhesion to an approved bonding
material applied over an approved backing.
(v3) Veneer, Erterior -veneer applied to weather-exposed sufaces.
(v4) Veneer, Interior -veneer applied to sufaces other than weather-exposed sufaces.
(vD Vessels - include every type of boat, craft or other aftificial contrivance, capable of
being used, as a means of transpoftation on water.
(w) Waiter/Waitress - a man or woman enteftainer whose seruices are hired by a
business establishment whose duty is.to serue food and/or drinks to its customers or
patrons and is dllowed' by such business establishmerit to enteftain its customers or
patrons only by congregating, conversing, talking or chatting with them and for no other
purpose.
(wt) Wall, Bearing - a wall which supports any load other than its own weight.
(w2) Walt Aross -a term which may be used'synonymously with a paftition.
(w3) Wall, Curtain - the enclosing wall of an iron or steel framework or the nonbearing
portion of an enclosing wall between piers.
(w4) Wall; Dead -A wall'without opening.
(w5) Wall, Erterior - any wall or element of a wall or any number or group of members,
which defines the exterior boundaries or coufts of a building.
(w6) Wall; Faced'- a wall in which the facing and'backing are so bonded'together that
they act as a composite element and exert a common action under load.
(w7) Wall, Fire - any wall which subdivides a building so as to resist the spread of fire,
by starting at the foundation and extending continuously through all storeys to, or above
the roof. E*ension above the roof is one (1) meter.
(w8) WalL Foundation - that portion of an enclosing wall below the first tier of floorjoists.
(w9) WAlt Heiiihit of -thb pErpendiCular di3tthce rhE-a3ured'frorh lt5 ba5e line Either at
the grade or at the top of the girder to the top of the coping thereof. Foundation and
retaining walls are measured from the grade downward to the base of the footing.
(w10) Wall, Non-bearing - a wall which supports no load other than its own weight.
(wtl) Wall; Parapet -that part of any wal'[ entirely a'bove the roof line.
(w12) WalL Party - a wall separating two (2) or more buildings, and used in common by
the said buildings.

Ord. No. 029L-t7
(w13) Wall, Retaining - any wall used to resist the lateral displacement of any material; a
subsurface built to resist the lateral pressure of internal loads.
(wla) Wall, Thickness of -the minimum thickness measured on the bed.
(wt5) Wall Sign - a sign painted on, attached or fastened to the surface of the wall or any
paft of a building or structure, the display surface of which is parallel to the wall surface.
(w16) Warehouse - includes every building or portion thereof where goods, wares,
merchandise, afticles or other personal property are received and stored. A warehouse
that accepts orderc or issues sales invoice shall be considered a branch or sales office.
(w17) Watercraft - is every description of conveyance, except seaplane, used or being
capable of use as a means of transpoftation on water which shall include passenger ship,
terry, pleasure yacht and other similar and analogous conveyances.
(w19) Wholesal* means a sale where the purchaser buys or imports the commodities for
resale to persons other than the end users, regardless of the quantity of the transaction.
(w20) Wholesaler- means a person or entity that resells goods or merchandise at a
profit to persons other than the end users, the goods being unaltered when resold,
regardless of the quantity sold. As a general rule, wholesale deal only with respect to
persons who buy for resale.
(w21) Wholesale Dealer in Fermented Liquors - means any one who for himself or on
commission sells or offers for sale fermented liquors in larger quantities than five liters at
any one time, or who sells or offers for sale such fermented liquor (excluding tuba, basi,
tapuy and similar domestic fermented liquors) for the purpose of resale, regardless of
quantity.
(w22) Wholesale Dealer of Distilled Spirits and Wnes - comprehends every person who
for himself or on commission sells or offers for sale wines or distilled spirits in larger
quantities than five liters at any one time, or who sells or offerc the same for sale for the
purpose of resale irrespective of quantity.
(w23) Wholesale Dealer in Liquor- includes every person who for himself or on
commission sells or offers for sale wines or distilled spirits for the purpose of resale
regardless of quantity.
(w2a) Wholesale Tobacco fualer - comprehends every person who for himself or on
commission sells or offers for sale cigars, cigarettes or manufactured tobacco in larger
quantities than two hundred cigars, eight hundred cigarettes or five kilos of manufactured
tobacco at any one time or who sells or offers the same for the purpose of resale,
regardless of quantity; retail tobacco dealer comprehends every person who for himself or
on commission sells or offers for sale not more than two hundred cigars, not more than
Eight Hundred (800) cigarettes, or not more than five kilos of manufactured tobacco at
any one time and not for sale.
(w18) Wharfage - means a fee assessed against the cargo of a vesse! engaged in foreign
or domestic trade based on the quantity, weight or measure received and/or discharged
by such vessel.

Ord. No. 0291-L7
(w25) Wndow -an opening through a wall of a building to the outside for the purpose of
admitting natural light and air.
(w26) Wndow, Oriel - a projecting window similar to a bay window, but carried on
brackets or corbels. The term "bay window" may also be applied to an orie! window
projecting over the street line.
(w27) Wre Backing - horizontal strands of tautened wire attached to sufaces of vertical
wood suppofts which, when covered with building paper, provide a backing for Portland
Cement Plaster.
(V) Yard or Patio - the vacant space left in a Iot between the building and the propefi
line.
(z) Zone - is a contiguous land area of block, say a subdivision or barangay where
tricycles-for-hire may operate without a fixed origin and destination.
(21) Zoning Law or Ordinance - either or both national or local legislation which logically
arranges, prescribes, defines and apportions a given political subdivision into specific land
uses at present and future projection, if needs warrant in accordance with the Housing
and Land Use Regulatory Board.
CHAPTER 2: CITY TAXES
Article One. Real Property Tax
a)
Aquisition Cost - for newly acquired machinery not yet depreciated and appraised
within the year of its purchase, refers to the actual cost of the machinery to its present
owner, plus the cost of transpoftation, handling, and installation at the present site.
(b) Actual Us - refers to the purpose for which the property is principally or
predominantly utilized by the person in the possession thereof.
(c) Ad Valorem Tax - is a levy on real propefi determined on the basis of a fixed
propoftion of the appraised value of the property.
(d) Appraisal - is the act or process of determining the value of propefi as of a
specific purpose.
(e) Assessmenf - is the act or process of determining the value of a property, or
portion thereof subject to tax, including the discovery, listing, classification, and appraisal
of propefties.
(0
Assessment Level- is the percentage applied to the fair market value to determine
the taxable value of the propefi.
(g) Assesxd Value - is the appraised value of the real property multiplied by the
assessment level. It is synonymous to taxable value.
SECTION 6. Definitions, When used in this Atticle:

Ord. No. 029L-L7
(h) Commercial Land - land area devoted principally for the object of profit and is not
classified as agricultural, industrial, mineral, timber, or residential land.
(i)
Depruiated Value - is the value remaining after deducting depreciation from the
acquisition cost.
0)
Economic Life - is the estimated period over which it is anticipated that a
machinery or equipment may be profitably utilized.
(k) Fair Ma*et Value - is the price at which a propefi may be sold by a seller who is not
compelled to sell and bought by a buyer who is not compelled to buy.
(l)
Improvemenf - is a valuable addition made to a real property or an amelioration in
its condition, amounting to more than a mere repair, or replacement of parts involving
capital expenditures and labor, which is intended to protect or enhance its value, beauty
or utility or to adapt it for new or further purposes.
(m) Industrial Land - land devoted principally to industrial activity as capita! investment
and is not classified as agricultural, commercial, timber, mineral or residential land.
(n) Machinery - embraces machines, equipment mechanical contrivances, instruments,
appliances or apparatus, which may or may not be attached, permanenUy or temporarily, to
the real propefi. It includes the physica! faciliUes for production, the installations and
appurtenant seruice facilities, those which are mobile, self-powered or self-propelled, and
those not permanently attached to the real propefi which are actually, directly and
exclusively used to meet the needs of the pafticular industry, business or activity and which
by their very nature and purposes are designed for, or necessary to its manufacturing,
mining, logging, commercial, industrial or agricultural purposes.
Machinery which are of general purpose use, including but not limited to, office
equipment, typewriters, telephone equipment, breakable or easily damaged containers
(glass or cartons), microcomputerc, facsimile machines, telex machines, cash dispensers,
furniture and fixtures, freezers, refrigerators, display cases or rack, fruit juice or beverage
automaUc dispensing machine which are not directly and exclusively used to meet the needs
of a particular indusffy, business or activity shall not be considered within the definition of
machinery under this rule. Residential machinery shall include machines, equipment,
appliances or apparatus permanently attached to residential land and improvements or
those immovable by destination.
(o) Reassment- is the assigning of new assessed values to property, pafticularly real
estate, as the result of a general, paftial, or individual reappraisal of the property.
(p) Remaining Economic Life - is the period of time expressed in years from the date of
appraisal to the date when the machinery becomes valueless.
(q) Replacement or Reproduction Cost- is the cost that would be incurred, on the basis
of current prices, in acquiring an equally desirable, substitute propefi, or the cost of
reproducing a new replica of the propefi, on the basis of the current prices with the same
or closely similar material.
(r)
Residential Land- is the land principally devoted to habitation.

Ord. No. 029L-L7
SECTION 7. fmposition of the Basic Real ProperUTax. -There is hereby levied
an annual ad valorem tax at the rate of one and one-half percent (1.5olo) of the assessed
value of real property, such as lands, buildings, machinery and other improvements affixed
or attached to real property located in this City.
SECTION 8. Additional Letry on Real PruperU for the Special Education
Fund (SEF), - There is hereby levied a one percent (Lo/o) tax on the assessed value of real
property which shall be in addition to the basic real property tax. The proceeds thereof shall
accrue e<clusively to the Special Education Fund (SEF).
SECTION 9. Eremptions to the fmposition, - The following are exempted from
payment of the basic real property tax and the SEF tax;
1.
Real propefi owned by the Republic of the Philippines or any of its political
subdivisions except when the beneficial use thereof has been granted, for
consideration or otherwise, to a taxable person;
2.
Charitable institutions, churches, and parsonages or convenE appurtenant
thereto, mosques, nonprofit or religious cemeteries and all lands, buildings and
improvements actually, directly, and exclusively used for religious, charitable or
educational purposes;
3.
Ail machineries and equipment that are actually, directly and exclusively used
by local water districts and government-owned or controlled corporations engaged in
the supply and distribution of water and/or generation and transmission of electric
power;
4.
All real property owned by duly registered cooperatives as provided for under
RA 6938; and
5.
Machinery and equipment used for pollution control and environmental
protection.
Except as provided herein and pursuant to SECTION 234 of the Local
Government Code, any exemption from payment of real property tax previously
granted to, or presently enjoyed by all persons, whether natural or juridical, including
all government-owned or controlled corporations are hereby withdrawn effective last
January L, t992.
SECTION 10. Tlme of Payment - The real property tax herein levied together with
the additional levy on real propefi for the Special Education Fund (SEF) shall be due and
payable on the first day of January. The same may, however, at the discretion of the
taxpayer, be paid without interesVpenalty in four (4) equal installments: the first
installment, on or before March 31; the second installment, on or before June 30; the third
installment, on or before September 30; and the last installment, on or before December 31.
Both the basic tax and the additional SEF tax must be collected simultaneously.
Payments of real propefi tax shall first be applied to prior years delinquencies, interesG
and penalties, if any, and only after said delinquencies are settled may tax payments be
credited for the current period.

Ord. No.029L-L7
SECTION 11. Tax Disount for Aduanced and Prumpt Payment - If the basic
real property and additiona! SEF tax are paid on or before the deadlines as provided for in
SECTION 9 of this Code, the ta<payer shall be enfitled to a discount of ten percent (10o/o). If
the above-mentioned taxes are paid in full for the whole year before the end of the first
(lst) quafter of the year, the taxpayer shall be entitled to twenty percent (20olo) tax
discount.
The above-mentioned discount shall only be granted to properties without any
delinquency.
SECTION 72, Appraisal of Real Propefi - All real propefties, whether taxable or
exempt, shall be appraised at the current and fair market value prevailing in the locality
where the property is situated. The Department of Finance shall promulgate the necessary
rules and regulations for the classification, appraisal and assessment of real propefi
pursuant to the provisions of this Code.
SECTION 73, Declaration of Real Property by the Owner or Administrator -
(a) All persons, natural or juridical, or their duly authorized representatives, owning or
administering real property, including improvements thereon, within a city, shall prepare
or cause to be prepared, and file with the city assessor, a sworn statement declaring the
true value of their propefi or propefties, whether previously declared or undeclared,
taxable or exempt, which shall be the current and fair market value of the propefi as
determined by the declarant.
(b) Such declaration shall contain a description of the propefi sufficient in detail to enable
the local assessor or his deputy to identiff the same for assessment purposes.
(c) All propefi owners or administrators or their duly authorized representatives shall file
the sworn declaration of real property values once every three (3) years during the period
from January 1 to June 30 ofthe year.
Failure of propefi owners or administrators to comply with SECTION 7 of this Revenue
Code shall be subject to a pecuniary/administrative fine of one-fourth (Ll4) of one percent
(1olo) of the assessed value of the propefi. The same shall only be imposed during the
General Revision of real propefi assessments.
SECTION 74, DUU of Percons Acquiring Real PruperU or Making
fmptovement Thereon, -
(a) All persons, natural or juridical, or their duly authorized representative, who acquire at
any time a parcel or parcels of land in the city, shall file with the City Assessor a sworn
statement declaring the true value of subject property within sixty (60) days after the
acquisition of such property as evidenced by a duly notarized or final deed of conveyance
executed between the contracting pafties bearing proof of registration from the registrar
of deeds concerned. The sixty-day period shall commence on the date of execution on the
deed ofconveyance.

Ord. No. 029t-L7
(b) In case of houses, buildings, or other improvements acquired or newly constructed
which will require building permits, property owners or their authorized representatives
shall likewise file a sworn declaration of the true value of the subject house, building, or
other improvements within sixty (60) days after:
(1) The date of a duly notarized final deed of sale, contract, or other deed of
conveyance covering the subject propefi executed between the contracting
pafties;
(2) The date of completion or occupancy of the newly constructed building, house,
or improvement whichever comes earlier; and
(3) The date of completion or occupancy of any expansion, renovation, or additional
structures or improvements made upon by existing building, house, or other real
propefties, whichever comes earlier.
(c) In the case of machinery, the sixty-day period for filing the required sworn declaration
of propefi values shall commence on the date of installation thereof as determined by the
City Assessor and, for this purpose, said City Assessor may secure ceftification of the
building official or engineer.
Failure of propefi owners or administrators to comply with SECTION 13 of this Revenue
Code shall be subject to a pecuniary/administrative fine of one-foufth of one percent (1/4
of lo/o) of the assessed value of the propefi.
SECTION 15, Declaration of Real Property by the City Assessor
(a) The City Assessor shall declare only real propefties previously undeclared for taxation
purposes.
(b) In the case of real propefi discovered whose owner or owners are unknown, the City
Assessor shall likewise declare the same in the name of the unknown owner, copy
furnished the City Assessor, until such time that a person, natural or juridical, comes fofth
and files the sworn declaration of propedry values.
(c) No oath shall be required of any declaration made by the City Assessor.
SECTION L6. Collection and Distribution of Pruceeds -The collection of the real
property tax with interest thereon and related expenses, and the enforcement of the
remedies provided for in this Afticle or any applicable laws, shall be the responsibility of the
City Treasurer. The City Treasurer may deputize the Barangay Treasurer to collect all taxes
on real properties located in the barangay: Provided, that the Barangay Treasurer is
properly bonded for the purpose: Provided, fufther, that the premium on the bond shall be
paid by the City Government.
The proceeds of the basic real propefi tax, including interest thereon, and proceeds
from the use, lease or disposition, sale or redemption of propefi acquired at a public
auction, shall be distributed as follows:
1.
Seventy percent (70o/o) shall accrue to the General Fund of the City;

Ord. No.029L-L7
Thirty percent (30o/o) shall be distributed among the component barangays of
the city where the property is located in the following manner:
a. Fifly percent (50o/o) shall accrue to the barangay where the property is
located.
b. Fiflry percent (50o/o) shall accrue equally to all component barangays of this
city.
The share of the barangay shall be released directly to the Barangay Treasurer on a
quafterly basis within five (5) days after the end of each quafter, without need of any
fufther actlon, and shal! not be subject to any lien or holdback for whatever purpose subject
to such rules as may be prescribed by the Commission on Audit for this purpose.
The proceeds of the additional one percent (1%) Special Education Fund tax shall be
automatically released to the City School Board for the operation and maintenance of public
schools, construction and repair of school buildings, facilities and equipment, educational
research, purchase of books and periodicals, and spofts development as determined and
approved by the City School Board.
SECTION 17, Administrative Provisions.
1.
Assessr to Furnish Treasurer with Assessment Roll. The CiW Assessor shall
prepare and submit to the City Treasurer on or before the thirty-first (31st) day of
December each year, an assessment roll containing a list of all persons whose real
propefties have been newly assessed or reassessed and the values of such properties.
2.
Notice of Time for Collection of Tax. The City Treasurer shall, on or before the
thirly-first (31st) day of January each year, in the case of basic real property tax and the
additional tax for the Special Education Fund or on any other date to be prescribed by the
SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod in the case of any other tax levied under this Afticle, post the
notice of the dates when the tax may be paid without interest at a conspicuous and publicly
accessible place at the city hal!. Said notice shall likewise be published in a newspaper of
general circulation in the locality once a week for two (2) consecutive weeks.
3.
Payment Under Protest.
(a) No protest shalt be entertained unless the taxpayer first pays the real propefi
ta< in full. Therc shall be annotated on the tax receipts the words "paid under protest."
The protest in writing must be filed within thifly (30) days from payment of the tax with the
City Treasurer who shall decide the protest within sixty (60) days from receipt.
(b) One Hundred percent (100%) of the Real Property Tax paid under protest
shall be held in trust by the City Treasurer.
(c) In the event that the protest is finally decided in favor of the taxpayer, the
amount or poftion of the tax protested shall be applied as tax credit against his existing or
future tax liability.

Ord. No. 029L-17
(d) In the event that the protest is denied or upon the lapse of the 60-day period
prescribed in subparagraph (a), the taxpayer may, within sixty (60) days from receipt of the
written notice of assessment or the day next following the lapse of the 60day period,
appea! to the City Board of Assessment Appeals by filing a petition under oath in the
standard form prescribed therefore, together with copies of the tax declaration and such
affidavits or documents in support of the appeal.
4.
Repayment of Excessive Collution. When an assessment of basic real
propefi tax, or any tax levied under this Article, is found to be illegal or erroneous and the
tax is accordingly reduced or adjusted, the taxpayer may file a written claim for refund or
credit for taxes and interests with the City Treasurer within two (2) years from the date the
taxpayer is entitled to such reduction or adjustment.
The City Treasurer shall decide the claim fur tax refund or credit within sixty
(60) days from receipt thereof. In case the claim for tax refund or credit is denied, the
taxpayer, may within sixty (60) days from the date of receipt of the written notice of
assessment, appeal to the City Board of Assessment Appeals by filing a petition under oath
in the standard form prescribed therefur, together with copies of the tax declaration and
such affidavits or documents in suppoft of the appeal.
5.
Notie of Delinquency in the Payment of the Real fiopefty Tax.
(a) When the real propefi tax or any other tax imposed under this Afticle
becomes delinquent the City Treasurer shall immediately cause a notice of the delinquency
to be posted at the main entrance of the hall and in a publicly accessible and conspicuous
place in each barangay. The notice of delinquency shall also be published once a week for
two (2) consecutive weeks, in a newspaper of general circulation in the city.
(b) Such notice shall speciry the date upon which the tax became delinquent and
shall state that personal propefi may be disfrained to effect payment. It shall likewise
state that at any Ume before the distraint of personal property, payment of tax with
surcharges, interests, and penalties may be made in accordance with SECTION 10 of this
Afticle, and unless the tax, surcharges and penalties are paid before the expiration of the
year br which the tax is due, except when the notice of assessment or special levy is
contested adminisffatively or judicially, the delinquent real propefi will be sold at public
auction, and the tiUe to the property will be vested in the purchaser, subject, however, to
the right of the delinquent owner of the property or any percon having legal interest therein
to redeem the propefi within one (1) year from the date of sale.
6.
Remdies for the Collrction of Real Propfi Ta<. For the collection of the
basic real property tax and any other levied under this Article, the city may avail of the
remedies by administrative action through levy on real propefi and sale of real property by
public auction or by judicial action.
7.
City Government's Lien. The basic real propefty tax and any other tax levied
under this Article constitutes a lien on the propefi subject to tax, superior to all liens,
charges or encumbrances in favor of any pe6on, irrespective of the owner or possessor
thereof, enforceable by administrative or judicia! action, and may only be extinguished upon
payment of the tax and related interests and expenses.

Ord. No. 029t-t7
8.
Levy on Real Property. After the expiration of the Ume required to pay the
basic real property tax or any other tax levied under this Article, real propefi subject to
such tax may be levied upon through issuance of a warrant on or before, or simultaneously
with the institution of the civil action for the collection of the delinquent tax. The City
Treasurer when issuing a warrant of levy shall prepare a duly authenticated ceftificate
showing the name of the delinquent owner of the propefi or person having legal interest
therein, the description of the propefi the amount of tax due and the interest thereon.
The warrant shall operate with the force of a legal execution throughout the City. The
warrant shall be mailed to or serued upon the delinquent owner of the rea! property or
percon having legal interest therein, or in case he is out of the country or cannot be located
to the administrator or occupant of the property. At the same time, written notice of the
levy with the attached wanant shall be mailed to or served upon the City Assessor and
Register of Deeds of the City, who shall annotate the levy on the tax declaration and
certificate of title of the property, respectively.
The levying officer shall submit a repoft on the levy to the City Mayor and the
SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod within ten (10) days after receipt of the warrant by the owner of
the propefi or person having legal interest therein.
9.
Penalty for Failure to Issue and tuecute Warrant. Without prejudice to
criminal prosecution under the Revised Penal Code and other applicable laws, the City
Treasurer or his deputy who fails to issue or execute the warrant of levy within one (1) year
from the time the tax becomes delinquent or within thity (30) days from the date of
issuance thereof, or who is found guilty of abusing the exercise thereof in an administrative
or judicial proceeding shall be dismissed from the seryice.
10.
Adveftisment and Sale. Within thifty (30) days after the seryice of the
warrant of Ievy, the City Treasurer shall proceed to publicly advertise for sale or auction the
propefi or a usable poftion thereof as may be necessary to satisfy the tax delinquenry and
expenses of sale. The advertisement shall be effected by posting a notice at the main
entrance of the ciff hall, and in a public accessible and conspicuous place in the barangay
where the real property is located, and by publication once a week for two (2) consecutive
weeks in a newspaper of general circulation in the city. The adveftisement shall speciff the
amount of the delinquent tax, the interest due thereon and expenses of sale, the date and
place of sale, the name of the owner of the real property or person having legal interest
therein, and a description of the propefi to be sold. At any time before the date fixed for
the sale, the owner of the real property or person having legal interest therein may stay the
proceedings by paying the delinquent tax, the interest due thereon and the expenses of
sale. The sale shall be held either at the main entrance of the city hall, or on the property
to be sold, or at any other place as specified in the notice of sale.
Within thifty (30) days after the sale, the City Treasurer or his deputy shall
make a report of the sale to the City Mayor and SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod and which shall
form part of his records. The CW Treasurer shall Iikewise prepare and deliver to the
purchaser a ceftificate of sale which shall contain the name of the purchaser, a description
of the propefi sold, the amount of the delinquent tax, the interest due thereon, the
ogenses of sale and a brief description of the proceedings. The proceeds of the sale in
excess of the delinquent tax, the interest due thereon, and the expenses of sale shall be
remitted to the owner of the real property or person having legal interest therein.

'
Ord. No.029L-I7
The City Treasurer may advance an amount sufficient to defray the cost of
collection through the remedies provided for in this Article, including the expenses of
advertisement and sale.
11. Redemption of Property Sold. Within one (1) year from the date of sale, the
owner of the delinquent real propefi or person having legal interest therein, or his
representative, shall have the right to redeem the property upon payment to the City
Treasurer of the amount of the delinquent tax, including the interest due thereon, and the
expenses of sale from the date of delinquency to the date of sale, plus interest of two
percent (2o/o) per month on the purchase price from the date of sale to the date of
redemption. Such payment shall invalidate the ceftificate of sale issued to the purchaser
and the owner of the delinquent real propefty or person having legal interest therein shall
be entitled to a Ceftificate of Redemption which shall be issued by the City Treasurer or his
deputy.
From the date of sale until the expiration of the period of redemption, the
delinquent real property shall remain in possession of the owner or person having legal
interest therein who shal! be entitled to the income and other fruits thereof.
The City Treasurer or his deputy, upon receipt from the purchaser of the
ceftificate of sale, shall forthwith return to the latter the entire amount paid by him plus
interest of two percent (2o/o) per month. Thereafter, the propefi shall be ftee from lien of
such delinquent tax, interest due thereon and expenses of sale.
L2. Final Deed to Purchaser. In case the owner or person having legal interest
therein fails to redeem the delinquent property as provided herein, the City Treasurer shall
execute a deed conveying to the purchaser said property, free from lien of the delinquent
tax, interest due thereon and expenses of sale. The deed shall briefly state the proceedings
upon which the validity of the sale rests.
13. Purchase of Property by the Oty Government for Want of Bidder. In case
there is no bidder for the real propefi advertised for sale as provided herein, or if the
highest bid is for an amount insufficient to pay Rea! Property tax and the related interest
and cost of sale, the City Treasurer conducting the sale shall purchase the propefi in behalf
of the city government to satisff the claim and within two (2) days thereafter shall make a
repoft of his proceedings which shall be reflected upon the records of his office, the City
Mayor, and the SANGGUNIANG Panglungsod. It shall be the duty of the Registrar of Deeds
upon registration with his office of any such declaration of forfeiture to transfer the title of
the fofeited property to the city government without the necessity of an order from a
competent court.
Within one (1) year from the date of such fofeiture, the taxpayers, or any of
his representatives, may redeem the property by paying to the City Treasurer the full
amount of the Real Property tax and the related interest, and the costs of sale. If the
propefi is not redeemed as provided herein, the ownership thereof shall be fully vested on
the city government.
14. Resale of Real Estate Taken for Taxes, Fees or Charges. The SANGGUNIANG
Panlungsod may, through a separate ordinance and upon noUce of not less than twenty
(20) days, sell and dispose of the real property acquired under the preceding SECTION at
public auction. The proceeds of the sale shall accrue to the General Fund of the City.

Ord. No.029L-L7
15. Fufther Distraint or Levy. Levy may be repeated if necessary until the full
amount due, including all expenses, is collected.
16. Collution of Real Property Tax Through the @urB. The City Government
may enforce the collection of the basic real property tax or any tax levied under this article
by civil action in any court of competent jurisdiction. The following civil action shall be filed
by the City Treasurer within the period prescribed in SECTION 18 of this Afticle:
a.
The City Treasurer shall furnish the City Legal Office a ceftified statement of
delinquency who, within fifteen (15) days after receipt, shall file the civil action in the
name of the city, the proper couft of competent jurisdiction. The jurisdiction of the
couft is determined by the amount sought to be recovered exclusive of
interests
and costs.
b.
Where cognizable in an inferior court, the action must be filed in the city
where the delinquent propefi is located. Where the Regiona! Trial Court has
jurisdiction, the plaintiff Local Government Unit shall file the complaint in the city
where the propefi is situated.
c.
In both cases, that iq where the claim is either cognizable by an inferior court
or by the Regional Trial Court, the City Treasurer sha!! furnish the City Legal Officer
the exact address of the defendant where he may be serued with summons.
t7. Action Assailing Validity of Tax Sale. No court shall enteftain action assailing
the validity of any sale at public auction of real propefi or rights therein under this Article
until the taxpayer shall have deposited with the court the amount for which the real
propefi was sold, together with interest of two percent (2olo) per month from the date of
sale to the time of the institution of the action. The amount so deposited shall be paid to
the purchaser at the auction sale if the deed is declared invalid but it shall be returned to
the depositor if the action fails.
Neither shall any court declare a sale at public auction invalid by reason of
irregularities or informalities in the proceedings unless the substantive right of the
delinquent owner of real propefi or the person having legal interest therein have been
impaired.
18. Payment of Delinquent Taxes on Propefi Subject of Controversy. In any
action involving the ownership or possession of, or succession to, real propefi, the court
may motu proprio or upon representation of the City Treasurer or his deputy, award such
ownership, possession or succession to any party to the action upon payment to the court of
the taxes with interest due on the property and all other costs that may have accrued,
subject to the final outcome of the action.
19. Treasurer to Certify Delinquencies Remaining Unollected, The City Treasurer
or his deputy shall prepare a certified list of all real propefi tax delinquencies which
remained uncollected or unpaid for at least one (1) year in his jurisdiction, and a statement
of the reason or reasons for such non-collection or non-payment, and shall submit to the
City Mayor and the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod on or before the thifi-first (31st) of
December of the year immediately succeeding the year in which the delinquencies were
incurred, with a request for assistance in the enforcement of the remedies for collection
provided herein.

Ord. No. 029L-17
SECTION 18. Special Provisions.
1.
Condonation or Reduction of Real Property Tax and Interest. In case of a
general failure of crops or substantial decrease in the price of agricultural or agri-based
products, or calamity in the city or when public interests so require, the SANGGUNIANG
Panlungsod by ordinance passed prior to the first (lst) day of January of any year and upon
recommendation of the Local Disaster Coordinating Council, may condone or reduce, wholly
or paftially, the taxes and interest thereon for the succeeding year or yearc in the city
affected by the calamity.
2.
Condonation or Reduction of Ta,v by ffie President of the Philippines. The
President of the Philippines may, when public interest so requires, condone or reduce the
real property tax and interest for any year in the city.
3.
DUU of Register of Deeds and Notaries Public b Assist the City Lssessor.
It shall be the duty of the Register of Deeds and Notaries Public to furnish the City Assessor
with copies of all contracts selling, transfening, or otherwise conveying, leasing, or
moftgaging real property received by, or acknowledged before them.
4.
Insurance Companies to Furnish Infotmation. Insurance companies are
hereby required to fumish the City Assessor copies of any contract or poliry insurance on
buildingq structures and improvements insured by them or such other documents which
may be necessry for the proper assessment thereof and the latter to ensure compliance
therein.
5.
Fes in Court Actions. As provided for in SECTION 280 of the Local Government
Code, all couft actions, criminal or civil, instituted at the instance of the City Treasurer shall
be exempt from the payment of couft and sheriffs fees.
6.
Fees in Registration of Paperc or DocumenB on Sale of Delinquent Real
Property to City. As provided for in SECTION 281 of the Local Government Code, all
certificates, documenB, and papers covering the sale of delinquent property to the city if
registered in the Registry of Propefi, shall be exempt from the documentary stamp tax
and registration fees.
7.
Real tuoprty As*ssment Notica or Owne/s @pies of Tax Dslarations to be
Exempt from Postal Charges or Fees. As provided for in SECTION 282 of the Local
Government Code, all real property assessment notices or owneds copies of tax declaration
sent through mails by the aasessor shall be exempt from the payment of postal charges or
fees.
B.
Sale and Forfeiture Before EMiuity of this Code. Tax delinquencies incurred,
and sales and forfeitures of delinquent real propefi effected, before the effectivity of this
C.ode shall be governed by the provisions of applicable ordinances or Iaws then in force.
SECTION L9. fnteresB on Unpaid Real Propefi Tax - Failure to pay the real
property tax or any other tax levied under this Article upon the expiration of the periods as
provided in SECTION 10, shall subject the taxpayer to the payment of interest at the rate of
two percent (2olo) per month on the unpaid amount or a fraction thereof, until the
delinquent tax shall have been fully paid. In no case shall the total interest on the unpaid
tax or portion thereof exceed thifi-six (36) months.

t-L7
No
Page
Ord.
SECTION 20. Penalties for Omission of Property from As*ssment or Tax
Rolls by Officerc and Other Affi, - Any officer charged with the duty of assessing a real
property who willfully fails to assess or who intentionally omits from the assessment or tax
roll any real property which he knows to be taxable, or who willfully or negligently underassesses any real propefi or who intentionally violates or fails to peform any duty
imposed upon him by law relating to the assessment of taxable real propefi shall, upon
conviction, be punished by a fine of not less than One Thousand Pesos (P1,000.00) nor
more than Five Thousand Fesos (P5,000.00), or by imprisonment of not less than one (1)
month nor more than six (6) months, or both such fine and imprisonment, at the discretion
of the couft.
The same penalty shall be imposed upon any officer charged with the duty of
collecting the tax due on real propefi who willfully or negligently fails to collect the tax and
institute the necessary proceedings for the collection of the same.
Any other officer required in this Article to peform acts relating to the administration
of the real propefi tax or to assist the assessor or treasurer in such administration, who
willfully fails to discharge such duties shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of not
less than Five Hundred Pesos (P500.00) nor more than Five Thousand Pesos (P5,000.00), or
imprisonment of not less than one (1) month nor more than six (6) months, or both such
fine and punishment, at the discretion of the court.
SECTION 2L. Penalties for Delaying Asssment of Real Propefi and
A*sment Appeals, - Any government officia! who intentionally and deliberately delays
the assessment of real propefi or the filing of any appeal against its assessment shall,
upon conviction, be punished by a fine of not less than Five Hundred Pesos (P500.00) nor
more than Five Thousand Pesos (P5,000.00), or imprisonment of not less than one (1)
month nor more than six (6) months, or both such fine and punishment, at the discretion of
the court.
SECTION 22, Penalties for Failurc to Dispo* the Delinguent Real Prcperty
at Public Auction, - The City Treasurer who fails to dispose of delinquent real propefi at
public auction in compliance with the peftinent provisions of this Article or any other local
official whose acts hinder the prompt disposition of delinquent real property at public
auction shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine of not less than One Thousand Pesos
(P1,000.00) nor more than Five Thousand Pesos (P5,000.00), or by imprisonment of not
less than one (1) month nor more than six (6) months, or both such fine and imprisonment,
at the discretion of the court.
SECTION 23. Periods within which to collect Real Propefi Taxes, - The
basic property tax and any other tax levied under this Article shall be collected within five
(5) years from the date they become due. No action for the collection of tax, whether
administrative or judicial, shall be instituted after the expiration of such period. In case of
fraud or intent to evade payment of the tax, such action may be instituted for the
collection of the same within ten (10) years from the discovery of such fraud or intent to
evade payment.
The period of prescription within which to collect shall be suspended for the time
during which:
1. The City Treasurer is legally prevented from collecting the tax;

Ord. No. 029L-L7
2. The owner of the propefi or the person having legal interest therein requests
for reinvestigation and executes a waiver in writing before the expiration of the
period within to collect; and
3. The owner of the property or the person having legal interest therein is out of
the country or otherwise cannot be located.
SECTION 24. Filing of Asressment Appeals, -Any owner or person having legal
interest in the propefi who is not satisfied with the action of the City Assessor in the
assessment of his property may, within sixty (60) days from the date of receipt of the
written notice of assessment, appeal to the City Board of Assessment Appeals by filing a
petition under oath in the form prescribed for the purpose, together with the copies of the
tax declarations and such affidavits or documents submitted in support of the appeal.
SECTION 25. Organization, Powets, Duties, and Fundions of the City Board
of Assessment Appeals, -
(a) The City Board of Assessment Appeals shall be composed of the Register of Deeds of
the City, as Chairperson, the City Prosecutor and the City Engineer as members, who shall
serye as in an officio capacity without additional compensation;
(b) The Chairperson of the Board shall have the power to designate any employees of
the City to serue as Secretary to the Board also without additional compensation.
(c) The Chairperson and members of the City Board of Assessment Appeals shall
assume their respective positions without need of further appointment or special
designation immediately upon effectivity of this Code. They shall take an oath or
affirmation of office in the manner herein set forth:
L
OATH OF OFFICE
after having been appointed to the position of
in the City of Davao, and now assuming my position as
of the City Board of Assessment Appeals, solemnly swear that
I will faithfully discharge to the best of my ability the duties of this position and all of
others that I am holding, or hereinafter hold, under the Republic of the Philippines, and
that I will suppoft and defend the Constitution of the Philippines, and that I will obey the
laws and legal orders promulgated by the duly constituted authorities of the Republic of
the Philippines, and that I wil! well and truly hear and determine all matters and issues
between taxpayers and the City Assessor submitted for my decision, and that I impose this
obligation upon myself voluntarily, without reservation or purpose of evasion.
So help me God.
Signature
Subscribed and sworn to before me on this
day of
Philippines.
at
Signature of Officer Administering Oath

Ord. No. A29L-L7
SECTION 26. Metings and Expenses of the City Boad of Assessment
Appeals, -The City Board of Assessment Appeals shall meet once a month and as often
as may be necessary for the prompt disposition of appealed cases. No member of the
Board shall be entitled to per diems or traveling expenses for his attendance in Board
Meetings, except when conducting an ocular inspection in connection with a case under
appea!.
All expenses of the Board shall be charged against the General Fund of the City.
The SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod shall appropriate the necessary funds to enable the Board to
operate effectively.
SECTION 27 , Action by the City Board of Assessment Appeals,
(a) The Board shall decide the appeal within one hundred twenty (120) days
from the date of receipt of such appeal. The Board, after hearing shall render its decision
based on substantial evidence or such relevant evidence on record as a reasonable mind
might accept as adequate to support the conclusion.
(b) In the existence of its appellate jurisdiction, the Board shall have the power
to summon witnesses, administer oaths, conduct ocular inspections, take depositions, and
subpoena and subpoena duces tecum. The proceedings of the Board shall be conducted
solely for the purpose of asceftaining the facts without necessarily adhering to technical
rules of applicable judicial proceedings.
(c) The Secretary of the Board shall furnish the owner of the propefi or the
person having legal interest therein and the City Assessor with a copy of the decision of
the Board. In case the City Assessor concurs in the revision or the assessment, it shall be
his duty to notify the owner of the propefi or the person having legal interest therein of
such fact using the form prescribed for the purpose. The owner of the propefi or the
person having legal interest therein or the City Assessor who is not satisfied with the
decision of the Board may, within thifi (30) days after receipt of the decision of said
Board, appeal to the Central Board of Assessment Appeals. The decision of the Central
Board of Assessment appeals shall be final and executory.
SECTION 28, Effect of Appeal on the Payment of Real Propefi Tax Appeal
on assessment of real property made under the provisions of this Afticle shall in no case,
suspend the collection of the corresponding realty taxes on the property involved as
assessed b)r the City Assessor, without prejudice to subsequent adjustment depending
upon the final outcome of the appeal.
Afticle Two. - Tax On ldle Lands
SECTION 29. Tax on fdb Lands, - There is hereby levied an annual tax on idle
lands of the property which shall be in addition to the basic real propefi tax at the
following rates, to wit:
Residential
Commercial & Industrial
Agricultural
= 0.5olo of the assessed value
= Lo/o of the assessed value
= 0.75o/o of the assessed value

Ord. No. 029L-L7
SECTION 30, Coverage, - For purposes of real propefi taxation, idle lands shall
include the following:
(a) Agricultural lands, more than one (1) hectare in area, suitable for cultivation,
dairying, inland fishery, and other agricultural uses, one-half (Llz) of which remain
uncultivated or unimproved by the owner of the propefi or person having legal interest
therein. Agricultural lands planted to permanent or perennial crops with at least fifty (50)
trees to a hectare shall not be considered idle lands. Lands actually used for grazing
purposes shall likewise not be considered idle lands.
(b) Lands, other than agricultural, located in the city, more than one thousand
(1,000) square meters in area one-half (Llz) of which remain unutilized or unimproved by
the owner of the properil or person having legal interest therein.
Regardless of land area, this Article shall likewise apply to residential lots in
subdMsions duly approved by proper authorities, the ownership of which has been
transferred to individual owners, who shall be liable for the additional tax. Provided,
however, that individual lots of such subdivisions, the ownership of which has not been
transfened to the buyer shall be considered as paft of the subdivision, and shall be subject
to the additional tax payable by subdivision owner or operator.
SECTION 3L, Exemption, - The idle land tax shall not apply to idle lands wherein
the landowner is physically or legally prevented from improving, utilizing or cultivating the
same by reason of force majuere, civi! disturbance, natural calamity, legal dispute, or any
justifiable cause or circumstance.
Any persons having legal interest on the land desiring to avail of the exemption under
this SECTION shall file the corresponding application with the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod. The
application shall state the ground(s) under which the exemption is being claimed.
SECTION 32, Listing of fdb bnds by the A*sn - The City Assessor shall
make and keep an updated record of idle lands located within his area of jurisdiction. And
for this purpose shall regularly publish in any conspicuous places within the vicinity of the
SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod and the City Hal! building or in publication or to be published in a
newspaper of genera! circulation within the City of Davao. For purposes of collection, the
City Assessor shall furnish a copy thereof to the City Treasurer who shall notiff, on the basis
of such record, the owner of the property or person having legal interest therein of the
imposition of the additional tax.
Any violation of this provision, shall hold the City Assessor liable for a fine of not less
than Five Hundred Pesos (P 500.00) nor more than Five Thousand Pesos (P 5,000.00), or
imprisonment of not less than one (1) month nor more than six (6) months, or both such
fine and punishment, at the discretion of the coutt.
SECTION 33. Collection and Accrual of Pruceeds, - The annual tax on idle lands
shall be collected at the same time and in the same manner as that of the basic real
propefi tax. The proceeds shall accrue to the General Fund of the City.
Afticle Three. - Tax on Transfer of Real Property Ownership

No 029t-17
SECTION 34. Tax on Transfer of Real Properly Ownerchip. - There is hereby
levied a tax on the sale, donation, barter, or on any other mode of transferring ownership or
title of real property at the rate of eighty-seven percent (87olo) of one percent (1olo) of the
total consideration involved in the acquisition of the property or the fair market value in case
the monetary consideration involved in the transfer is not substantial, whichever is higher.
The fair market value as used herein shall be that reflected in the prevailing schedule
of fair market values enacted by the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod.
SECTION 35, Exemption, - The sale, transfer or other disposition of real propefi
pursuant to R.A. 6657 shall be exempt from this tax,
SECTION 36. fime of Payment - It shall be the duty of the seller, donor,
transferor, executor or administrator to pay to the City Treasurer the tax herein imposed
within sixty (60) days from the date of the execution of the deed or from the date of the
propefi owner's death.
SECTION 37 . Administrative Provisions,
(a) Before any document of transfer, alienation, or encumbrance of real property
may be registered, the registrar of deeds shall require the presentation of a
ceftificate or clearance issued by the local treasurer concerned to the effect
that all current year and past year basic and additional special education fund,
real propefly taxes, and the tax on transfer of real property ownership, due on
the subject propefi, have been paid in ful! including interests or penalties due
thereon.
Failure to provide such ceftificate shall be a valid cause for the registrar of
deeds to refuse the registraUon of the document. In the absence of such
ceftification or tax clearance, the registration is null and void.
(b) The Registrar of Deeds and notaries public shall furnish the city assessor
with copies of all contracts, selling, transferring, or otherwise conveying,
leasing or moftgaging rea! propefi registered by, or acknowledged before
them, within (30) days from the date of registration or acknowledgement.
Afticle Four. - Tax on Printing and Publication
SECTION 38. Tax on Printing and Publication, - There is hereby levied a tax at
the rate of eighty-seven percent (87o/o) of one percent (1olo) of the gross annual receipts for
the preceding calendar year on the business of persons engaged in the printing and/or
publication of books, cards, posters, leafiets, handbills, ceftificates, receipts, pamphlets, and
others of similar nature.
In the case of a newly started business, the tax shall be three-twentieth (3 '"tt
of one percent (7o/o) of the capital investment. In the succeeding calendar year,
regardless of when the business started to operate, the tax shall be based on the gross
receipts for the preceding calendar year, or any fraction thereof, as provided herein.
Page
Ord.

Ord. No.029t-17
SECTION 39. Exemption, - The receipts from the printing and/or publishing of
book or other reading materials prescribed by the Depaftment of Education, as school texts
or references shall be exempt from the tax herein imposed.
SECTION 40. fime of Paymenf, - The tax imposed in this Article shall be due and
payable in quarterly installments to the City Treasurer, within the first twenty (20) days
following each quarter. In the case of a newly stafted business, the tax shall be paid
before the business starB to operate.
Afticle Five. - Franchise Tax
SECTION 4L. Franchire Tax - There is hereby imposed a tax on business enjoying
a franchise, at the rate of eighty-seven percent (87olo) of one percent (Lo/o) of the gross
annual receipts, which shall include both cash sales and sales on account realized during the
preceding calendar year within the territorial limits of the city.
In the case of a newly started business, the tax shal! be three-twentieth (3/20) of
one percent (1olo) of the capital investment. In the succeeding calendar year, regardless of
when the business stafted to operate, the tax shall be based on the gross receipts for the
preceding calendar year, or any fraction thereof, as provided herein.
The capital investment to be used as basis of the tax of a newly started business as
herein provided shall be determined in the following manner:
(a) If the principal office of the business is located in the city, the paid-up capital stated
in the articles of corporation in case of corporations, or in any similar document in case of
other types of business organization, shall be considered as capital investment.
(b) In the case of a branch or sales office located in the city which commences business
operations during the same year as the principal office but which is located in another
locality, the paid-up capital reftrred in paragraph (a) shall mean the amount of the capital
investment made for the said branch or sales office.
(c) Where the newly stafted business is a branch or sales office commencing operations
at a year later than that of the principal office, capital investment shall mean the total funds
invested in the branch or sales office.
SECTION 42. Eemption, - The term businesses enjoying franchise shall not
include holderc of ceftificates of public convenience for the operation of public vehicles for
reason that such ceftificates are not considered as franchises.
SECTION 43. Time of Paymenf, - The tax imposed in this Article shall be due and
payable in quafterly installments to the City Treasurer, within the first twenty (20) days
following each quafter. In the case of a newly-stafted business, the tax shall be paid
before the business stafts to operate.
Article Six. - Tax on Sand, Gravel and Other Quarry Resources

No 029t-L7
SECTION 44. Tax on fin4 Gravel and Other Quarry Resouttes, - There is
hereby imposed a tax of Thifi Pesos (P 30.00) per cubic meter based on materials actually
extracted on ordinary stones, sand, gravel, eafth, and other quarry resources, such as but
not limited to marl, marble, granite, volcanic cinders, basalt, tuff and rock phosphate,
extracted from the public lands or from the beds of seas, lakes, riverc, streams creeK, and
other public waters within the territorialjurisdiction of the city.
Private lands shall not be quarried for business purposes without permit from the
City Mayor and shall be taxed as retailer.
In case the concessionaire is engaged in the retail of ordinary stones, sand, gravel,
eafth and other quarry resources at any place other than the quarry area, or delivers the
same to the middlemen and/or end user, the same shal! be taxed not only as
concessionaire but also as retailer, however, the amount of the said quarry resources at
cost from the quarry shall be deducted to determine the gross sales as retailer.
Every person or entity who shal! establish, operate and maintain quarry yards within
Davao City shal! first secure a special permit from the City Mayor and pay annually the
corresponding fees:
Annual Fee
Page
Ord.
a) with an area of 500 sq. m. or less
b) over 500 sq.m. but not more than 1,000 sq. m.
c) over 1,000 sq.m. but not more than 1,500 sq. m.
d) over 1,500 sq.m. but not more than 2,000 sq. m.
e) over 2,000 sq.m.
.P
1,500.00
1,750.00
2,000.00
2,500.00
3,500.00
The City Treasurer when it deems necessary may post an inspector in the quarry
area to determine the volume of quarry resources extracted. No quarrying shall be done
upon due notice to the concessionaire concerned without the presence of the inspector.
SECTION 45, Isuane of Permit, - Every person who shall extract sand and gravel
and other quarry resources shall secure a permit ftom the City Mayor and pay a special
permit fee of Two Hundred Pesos (P200.00), pursuant to the procedural guidelines
embodied in the Mines Administrative Order No. MRD - 27, *ries of 1980 , the applicable
prouisions of which are hereby adopted as an integral part of this Ordinance,
In the issuance of permit to extract sand and gravel and other quarry materials, a
barangay clearance shall be required. In case the barangay clearance shall not be issued
within seven (7) working days, the said permit shall be issued by the City Mayor.
SECTION 46. Exemption, - Any government agenry that has been granted a
gratuitous permit to extract the above-mentioned materials for the purpose of governmental
p@ects within the City shall be exempt from the payment of the tax herein prescribed.
Every person granted gratuitous permit to remove or take the building or
construction materials, shal! be exempted from the payment of this fee if the same materials
are for the grantee's exclusive persona! use and not for sale.
SECTION 47. fime and Place of Payment - The tax shall be due every month
upon issuance of Quarry Permit based on materials actually extracted or applied volume of
extraction of quarry materials divided by LZ months whichever is higher'

Ord. No.029t-t7
SECTION 48. Surchatge for Late Payment - Failure to pay the tax imposed in
this Article on time shall subject the taxpayer to a surcharge of twenty-five percent (25o/o) of
the original amount of tax due, such surcharge to be paid at the same time and in the same
manner as the tax due.
SECTION 49. fnturest on Unpaid Tax - In addition to the surcharge for the late
paymenf, there shall be imposed upon the unpaid amount an interest of two percent (2o/o)
per month from the date it is due until the tax is fully paid but in no case shall the total
interest on the unpaid amount or a poftion thereof exceed thifi-six (36) months.
SECTION 5O. Sharing of Proceeds, - The proceeds of the tax on sand, gravel, and
other quarry resources shall be distributed as follows:
(a) City, sixty percent (60%)
(b) Barangay where the sand and other quarry resources are extracted, fofi
percent 600/o)
SECTION 51, Periodic fnspedion by City Officials. - All operations under the
permit shall be subject to periodic inspection by the City Mayor, City Environment and
Natural Resources Officer, City Engineer and City Treasurer or by their duly authorized
representative for the purpose of determining:
a) that the operation is confined within the permit area;
b) that the materials extracted are in accordance with the terms and
conditions of the permit;
c) that the operation is not within one kilometer radius of an existing public/
private structure;
d) that the permit is used exclusively by the permittee and shall not be
transferred to any person, partnership or corporation without prior
approval by the City Mayor;
e) that the permittee or his agent shall post a copy of the permit in the area
where the materials are being removed and shall be made available at all
times for inspection by a representative of the City Mayor, the City
Environment and Natural Resources Officer or the City Treasurer.
SECTION 52. Mandatory Requirement, - All vehicles carrying sand, gravel,
eafth and other quarry resources shall at all times be covered with canvas. Any violation
of this SECTION shall be punished in accordance with existing applicable laws.
SECTION 53. Authority to fmpound Vehicles carrying extracted materials
without permit, - The City Mayor or the City Environment and Natural Resources
Officer, or their representatives shal! have the authority to impound any vehicle carrying
stones, sand, gravel and other quarry materials extracted without the quarry receipt and
corresponding permit to extract, and retailer's permit in case of concessionaire and retailer
respectively, or for non-payment of the corresponding taxes and fees which may be
assisted by the members of the PNP and/ or City Transport and Traffic Management Office
upon request.
The City Engineer or his authorized representative shall be the custodian of all
impounded vehicles. The impounded vehicle shall only be released upon payment by the
owner of the vehicle of the corresponding taxes, fees, charges and surcharges of twentyfive percent (25olo) plus an interest of two percent (2o/o) per month until the amount is

Ord. No. 029t-t7
fully paid but not to exceed seventy-two percent (72o/o) and storage fee of One Thousand
Pesos (P1,000.00) per day with proper clearance issued by the City Treasurer or his duly
authorized representative.
SECTION 54. Printing of Quarry Receipb, -The office of the Treasurer is
hereby authorized to print or cause the printing of serially numbered quarry receipts as
maybe necessary for issuance to permittees or concessionaires who shall procure the
same at the City Treasurer's Office.
SECTION 55. fssuance of Quarry Receipb, - The concessionaire or permittee
shall at all times issue quarry receipts to any person/driver engaged in hauling sand,
grave!, earth, stones and other quarry materials for purposes of inspection by the duly
authorized representatives of the City Mayor, City Environment and Natura! Resources
Officer and the City Treasurer. Such receipt must always be carried by the driver, which
shall be shown upon demand. The original copy shall be issued to and carried by the
driver, duplicate copy shall be attached to the monthly repoft of the permittee, the
triplicate copy shall be submitted within five (5) days of the succeeding month to the City
Treasure/s Office or any district offices where the concessionaires are Iocated, and the
fourth copy shall be kept by the permittee which shall be made available during inspection
by proper authorities. The quarry material hauled or delivered to any destination without
the corresponding delivery receipt shal! be construed to have been illegally extracted.
The application for clearance shail be acted upon within seven (7) working days
from the flling thereof. In the event that the clearance is not issued within the said
period, the city or municipality may issue the said license or permit.
SECTION 56. Inspection and Issuance of Ceftification by the City Engineer's
Office, Before issuance of Quarry Permit, the City Enginee/s Office shall conduct site
inspection to determine that no infrastructure will be affected within a distance of one (1)
kilometer radius from the concession/quarry site. If this requirement is met the City
Engineer's Office interposes no objection, provided that no extraction shall be done within
an easement of five (5) meters from the bank. In addition, it is required that trenching
method will be strictly followed and the government has the right to extract materials from
the said quarry area without any financial obligations. Fufthermore, the concessionaire is
obliged to help rehabilitate the roads that may be damaged due to the heavy equipment
units passing through. Failure to comply with any of the herein conditions shall be
sufficient grounds for this Office to recommend the revocation of quarry permit that may
be issued to this effect.
SECTION 57. fmposition of Fees - There shall be fees imposed on inspection
done and ceftification issued by the City Engineer's Office in connection with the
application for quarry permit and its renewal:
Amount of Fee
1.) Inspection Fee
2.) Ceftification Fee
P 1,000.00
100.00

Ord. No. 029L-L7
Afticle Seven. - Professional Tax
SECTION 58. Professional Tax. - There is hereby imposed an annual professional
tax on each person engaged in the exercise or practice of his profession requiring
government examination at the rate of Three Hundred Pesos (P300.00).
SECTION 59. Coverage, -
Professionals who passed the bar examinations
conducted by the Supreme Court, or any board or other examinations conducted by the
Professional Regulation Commission (PRC) shall be subject to the professional tax.
SECTION 60, Exemption, - Professionals exclusively employed in the government
shall be exempt from the payment of this tax.
SECTION 61. Payment of the Tax - The professiona! tax shall be paid before any
profession herein specified can be laMully pursued. A line of profession does not become
exempt even if conducted with some other profession for which the tax has been paid.
SECTION 62. Time and Place of-Payment -The professional tax shall be payable
annually, on or befure the thirty-first (31st) day of January of each year to the City
Treasurer. Any percon first beginning to practice a profession after the month of January
must, however, pay the fu!! tax before engaging therein.
Every person legally authorized to practice his profession in this city shall pay to the
city where he maintains his principal office in case he practices his profession in several
places.
SECTION 63, Administrative Provisions.
(a) A person who paid the professional tax shall be entitled to practice his
profession in any paft of the Philippines without being subjected to any other national or
local tax or fee for the practice of such profession.
(b) The City Treasurer or his duly authorized representative shall require from
professionals their unexpired professional licensed card or Profession Identification Card
issued by PRC or a ceftificaUon from PRC that the professional ID/license card is still on
process before accepting payment of their professional tax for the current year. In case of a
lawyer, he/she must present his/her latest official receipt in payment of his/her Integrated
Bar of the Phllippines (IBP) membership fee issued by the latter.
(c) Any individual or corporation employing a person subject to the professional
tax shall require payment by that person of the tax on his profession before employment
and annually thereafter.
(d) Any person subject to the professional tax shall write in deeds, receipts,
prescriptions, reporb, books of account plans and designs/ surveys and maps, as the case
may be, the number of the official receipt issued to him.
Afticle Eight. - Amusement Tax on Admission
SECTION 64, fmposition of Tax for Amusement Plaes and Actiuities, There is
hereby levied a tax to be collected from the proprietors, lessees, or operators of amusement
places and other places of amusement at the rate herein prescribed based on the gross
receipE from admission fees, as follows:

Ord. No.029L-L7
'L0o/o
- 5o/o
There shall be collected from the producers and promoterc or amusement activities,
a ta( with the rate herein prescribed based on the gross receipts from admission fees:
Amusement Activities
Rate
a) Movie Premierc
-t0o/o from the showing of foreign films
-5o/o for the showing of local films
Amusement Place
a) Movie Theaters or Cinema
b) Conceft Halls, Comedy Bars, KTV
CIubq Cocktail Lounges and other
Night Spots
c) Carnivals, Theme Parks, Video and
Game Arcades, Mechanical Rides
and other Fun Houses
d) Cockpits
e) Sports Stadia and Multi-Purpose
Coliseum
D All other Amusement Places not
specifically falling under the above
enumeration
b) Musical Concefts, Theatrical Plays,
Fashion Shows and other Live
Performances
c) Cockfights and Derbies held
in a regular licensed cockpit
Additional Fee per Sultada
d) All other Amusement Activities not
specifically falling under the above
enumeration
Rate
- tOo/o from the showing of foreign films
- 5olo from the showing of local films
- L0o/o
- l0o/o
'tOo/o
-L}o/o from those performed by foreign
Artists
- 5olo from those peformed by local
Artists
- 30o/o
P 100.00
-l0o/o from those pefformed by foreign
aftists/athletes
- 5o/o from those peformed by loca!
aftists.

Ord. No. 0291-L7
For the purpose of this Article, "Admission Fees" shall mean any amount paid or
consideration given for entrance, seats, tables, reserved or otherwise, and other similar
accommodations in an amusement place, including charges for the use of facilities therein,
irrespective of whether or not an admission ticket is issued in exchange for such admission
fee or consideration. The same shall also include: show, table, minimum, consumable,
cover and other similar charges; charges for the first drink and other similar coupons; and
V.I.P. room, equipment and other similar rental charges and consumables.
Failure to pay the tax within the time fixed herein shall render those person or entity
concerned liable to a surcharge of twenty-five percent (25o/o) of the original amount plus an
interest of two percent (2o/o) per month on the amount due until the tax is fully paid but in
no case shall the total interest on the unpaid amount or a poftion thereof exceed thifi-six
(36) months.
SECTION 65. Manner of Computing Tax - In the case of theaters or cinemas,
the tax shall first be deducted and withheld by their proprietors, lessees, or operators and
paid to the City Treasurer before the gross receipts are divided between said proprietorq
lessees, or operators and the distributors of the cinematographic films.
SECTION 66, Exemptions, -
The tax herein imposed does not apply in the
following cases, provided, that exemption should first be obtained for this purpose from the
SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod :
a.
Where the admission fees are collected for and in behalf of the charitable,
educationa! or religious institutions or associations who are declared by law or
presidential proclamation as exempted from the payment of amusement tax on paid
admission; provided, fufther, that such exhibition, show, peformance, and the like,
shall be limited to only three (3) days in a calendar year;
b.
Where the admission fees are collected in connection with the holding of
operas, concefts, dramas, recitals, paintings and art exhibitions, flower shows,
musical programs, literary and oratorical presentations except pop rock, or similar
concerts not intended primarily for profit and fufthermore, not including film
exhibitions; and
c.
Provided, fufther, that said exemption shall be applicable only to the share of
the sponsoring exempt institutions or organizaUons as aforementioned. However,
the remaining proceeds, including those accruing to the promoter, shall be subject to
the payment of amusement tax, in accordance with the above rates.
SECTION 67. Form of tickeE; their rqistrattbn, - Every proprietor, lessee or
operator of amusement place or producer or promoter of amusement activities as above
described, shall provide tickets that shall be serially numbered, indicating therein the name
of the amusement place and the amount of admission or entrance fee. All tickets to be
used, . whether regular, special or complimentary, issued manually or by means of
computerized ticketing system, shall be presented to the Office of the Treasurer for
registration. Whenever the proprietor, lessee or operator of places of amusement or
producer or promoter of amusement activiUes changes the amount of admission or entrance
fee after registration, a notice to the effect shall be registered with the City Treasurer and

Ord. No. 029L-L7
be conspicuously posted in the place of business or activities for the information of the
public. Sub-numbering of such tickets is hereby prohibited. The serial number must be
printed on both ends of tickets such that when divided into two upon being presented for
admission, the serial number shall appear on both parts. The gatekeeper shall drop one-half
of the torn ticket in a locked box or receptacle and the other half to be returned to the
customer. The box or receptacle shall only be opened by the representative of the Office of
the City Treasurer.
Any violation of the aforementioned provision shall be subject to the imposition of
penalties under SECTION 448 of this Code.
SECTION 68. Time and Place of Payment -The amusement tax on admission
herein imposed shal! be due and payable by the proprietor, lessee or operator concerned,
within the first ten (10) days of the month next following that for which they are due to the
City Treasurer before the gross receipts are divided between the proprietors, lessees, or
operator and the distributors of the cinematographic films.
In the case of itinerant operators of similar modes of amusement, the tax herein
prescribed shall be paid immediately after the last full show or pedormance.
SECTION 69. Verification of TickeB, - The City Mayor or City Treasurer shall,
whenever they deem it necessary for the good of the seruice, post their duly authorized
inspectors at the gates of amusement places for the purpose of veriffing all tickets sold
thereat or the number of persons admitted therein.
Said duly authorized inspectors shall have access to all admission tickets being sold to
the public from opening time of the amusement place up to closing time.
SECTION 70. Filing of Performance Bondsi forfeiture thercof, - Persons
engaged in any amusement activities within the City of Davao, as promoters or organizers,
shall upon registration of their admission tickets, file a peformance bond in an amount
equal, as nearly as can be estimated, to the amount of amusement taxes payable by them.
Such bond shall be returned to the operator, promoter or sponsorc upon payment of
all taxes due. Failure to pay such taxes within ten (10) working days from the time it
become due will be subject to confiscation of such bond in full by the City Treasurer to
stisry their tax liability to the government.
SECTION 7L. Filing of Return, - Upon payment of the tax due, the proprietors or
lessees of amusement places or producers or promoter of amusement activities, shall attach
a true and complete sworn return showing the gross receipts from admission fees to be
reconciled with the reporG submitted by the monitoring team of the City Treasure/s Office.
Failure to submit such return shall make the repoft of the monitoring team from the City
Treasure/s Office as the basis for the computation of tax.
Afticle l{ine. - Annual Fixed Tax for Evety Delivery Vehicle, Truck
or Van of Manufacturerc or Producerc, Wholesalerc of, Dealerc
or Retailerc in Ceftain Products.

No 0291-t7
SECTION 72. fmposition of Tax - There is hereby imposed an annual fixed tax
for every delivery vehicle, truc( van, or any motor vehicle, vessels or watercraft used by
manufacturers, producers, wholesalerc, dealers or retailers in the delivery or distribution of
distilled spirits, fermented liquors, soft drinks, cigars and cigarettes and other essential
products and sales of goods as may hereinafter be determined by the SANGGUNIANG
Panlungsod to sales outlets or consumers, whether directly or indirectly within the City,
subject to the following rates:
Page
Ord.
a. Motorcycle and motorized tricycle
b. Delivery jeepney and similar utility vehicle
c. Truck, van, or any vehicle with six wheels and above
d. Water vessel, barges, ferry boats, tug boats and similar
watercrafts
e. Airplane or aircraft
Less than 50,000.00
50,000.00 or more but less than 75,000.00
75,000.00 or more but less than 100,000.00
100,000.00 or more but less than 150,000.00
150,000.00 or more but less than 200,000.00
200,000.00 or more but less than 300,000.00
P 240.00
600.00
1000.00
2000.00
s000.00
SECTION 73, Exemption. - The manufacturers, producerc, wholesalers, dealers,
and retailers referred to in the preceding sections shall be exempt from the payment of the
Peddler's tax in the sale of any merchandise or afticle of commerce imposable by the city.
SECTION 74. Time and Place of Payment, - The tax imposed in this Article shall
accrue on the first day of January and shall be paid to the City Treasurer within the first
twenty (20) days of January.
SECTION 75. Annual Registration Sticken - An annual registration sticker shall
be issued by the Office of the City Treasurer upon payment of Two Hundred Pesos
(P200.00) and the same shall be displayed at the right windshield of any delivery van, truck
or vehicle.
Article Ten, - Graduated Tax on Business
SECTION 76. fmposition of Tax - There is hereby imposed on the following
persons who establish, operate, conduct or maintain their respective business within the City
a graduated business tax in the amounts hereafter prescribed:
(a) On Manufactureq A*mbleq Repackerc, Proceswry Brewers, Distillerc, Rectifierc,
and Compounderc of liquorq distilled spirits,'and wines or manufacturcrc of any article of
commerce of whatever kind or nature in accordance with the following schedule:
Amount of Gross Sales/Receipts for the Preceding
Tax Per Annum
L,497.38
2,395.80
2,994.75
3,993.00
4,99t.25
6,987.75

Ord. No. 0291-17
300,000.00 or more but less than 500,000.00
500,000.00 or more but less than 750,000.00
750,000.00 or more but less than 1,000,000.00
1,000,000.00 or more but less than 2,000,000.00
2,000,000.00 or more but Iess than 3,000,000.00
3,000,000.00 or more but less than 4,000,000.00
4,000,000.00 or more but less than 5,000,000.00
5,000,000.00 or more but less than 6,500,000.00
In excess of 5,500,000.00
9,982.50
14,520.00
18,150.00
24,955.70
29,947,50
35,937.00
4L,926.50
4,240.63
At a rate of forty-six
percent (460/o) of one
percent (1olo)
The preceding rates sha!! apply only to amount of domestic sales of manufacturers,
assemblerc, repackers, processors, brewers, distillers, rectifiers and compounders of liquors,
distilled spirits, and wines or manufacturers of any article of commerce of whatever kind or
nature other than those enumerated under paragraph (c) of this Article.
(b) On Wholesalers, Distributorc, or Dealers in any article of commerce of
whatever kind or nature in accordance with the following schedules:
Gross Sales/Receiots for the Preceding Calendar Year
Amount of
Tax Per Annum
Less than 50,000.00
1,210.00
50,000.00 or more but less than 75,000.00
1,815.00
75,000.00 or more but less than 100,000.00
2,420.A0
100,000.00 or more but less than 150,000.00
3,630.00
150,000.00 or more but less than 200,000.00
4,840.00
200,000.00 or more but less than 300,000.00
6,050.00
300,000.00 or more but less than 500,000.00
8,470.00
500,000.00 or more but less than 750,000.00
12,100.00
750,000.00 or more but less than 1,000,000.00
15,972.00
1,000,000.00 or more but Iess than 2,000,000.00
18,150.00
In excess 2,000,000.00
At a rate of sixty-six (660lo)
percent of one percent (LYo)
The businesses enumerated in paragraph (a) above shall no longer be subject to the
tax on wholesalers, distributorc, or dealers provided in this Article,
(c-1) On Eupofterc at one-third (U3) of the rates prescribed under sub-sections (a),
(b), and (d) of this Atticle.
(c-2) On Produerc of proces*d produ&, Wholesaleq DistibutoA Dealerc or
Rebilers of esntial ammodities, enumerated hereunder, at a rate not exceeding one-half
(Ll2) of the rates prescribed under subsections (a), (b), and (d) of this Afticle;
(1) Rice and Corn;

(2)
(3)
(4)
(s)
Ord. No.029L-17
Wheat or cassava flour, meat, dairy products, locally manufactured, processed
or lpreseryed food, sugar, salt and agricultural marine, and fresh water
products, whether in their original state or not;
Cooking oil and cooking gas;
Laundry soap, detergents, and medicine;
Agricultural implements, equipment and post-haruest facilities, feftilizers,
pesticides, insecticides, herbicides and other farm inputs;
Pouttry feeds and other animal feeds;
School supplies; and
Cemen"t
(6)
(7)
(8)
For purposes of this provision, the term exportes shaU refer to those who are
principally engaged in the business of expofting goods and merchandise, as well as
manufacturers and producers whose goods or products are both sold domestically and
abroad. The amount of expoft sales shall be excluded from the total sales and shall be
subject to the rates not exceeding one-half (U2) of the rates prescribed under paragraphs
(a), (b), and (d) of thisArtide,
(d) On Retailerc:
Gross Sales/Receipts for ttre Precedinq year
Rate of TaxPerAnnum
More than P50,000.00 but not over P+00,000.00
In excess of P100,000.00
2.2o/o
L.ZLo/o
However, barangays shall have the exdusive power to levy taxes on stores whose
gross sales or receipts of the preceding calendar year does not exceed Fifty Thousand Pesos
( P 50,000.00 ) subject to existing laws and regulations.
(e) On Cantradns and other fndependent hntactors in acmrdance with the
bllowing schedule:
Gross Sales/Receipts fof the Preceding Calendar Year
Amount of
Tax Per Annum
Less than 50,000-00
998-25
50,000.00 or more but less than 75,000.00
L,597.20
75,000.00 or more but less than 100,000.00
2,395.80
100,000.00 or more but less than 150,000,00
3,593.70
150,000.00 or inore but less than 200,000.00
4,79L.60
200,000-00 ormore but less than 50,000-00
6,588-45
200,000.00 or more but less than 300,000.00
8,385.30
300,000.00 or more but less than 400,000.00
11,180.40
300,000.00 or more but less than 500,000.00
L4,973.75
500,000.00 or more but less than 750,000.00
16,788.75
750,000.00 or more but less than 1,000,000.00
18,603-75
1,000,000.00 or more but less than 2,000,000.00
20,993.50
In excess 2,000,000.00
At a rate of sixty
percent of one percent (1olo)
(60o/o)

Ord. No. 029L-L7
For purposes of this SECTION, the tax on general engineering, general building, and
specialty contractors shall initially be based on the total contract price, payable in equal
annual installments within the project term. Should a contractor (applicable only to general
engineering and general building conkactor) undeftake to furnish the materials in the
construction wor( only the cost of such materials shall be deducted ftom his gross receipts
for the purpose of determining the tax due.
Upon completion of the project, the taxes shall be recomputed on the basis of the
gross receipts for the preceding calendar years and the deficiency tax, if there be any, shall
be collected as provided in this Code or the excess tax payment shall be refunded.
Lessors and Dealers of Real Estate shall be taxed at the same rate provided in
paragraph (e) of this SECTION.
(0
On tunks and Other Financial Institutions, at the rate of sixty and half percent
(60.500/o) of one percent (tolo) of the gross receipts of the preceding calendar year derived
from interest, commissions and discounts from lending activities, income from financial
leasing, dividends, rentals on propefi, and profit from exchange or sale of propefi,
insurance premium, including holding companies. All bank transactions filed or negotiated
within Davao City branches, gross ieceipts of which shall be taxable where the branch is
located, regardless whether the transactions were forwarded to the main office for approval.
(g) On Restaurants, Cafes, Cafeterias, Carenderias, Eateries, Food Caterers, Ice
Cream and other Refreshment Parlors and Soda Fountain Bars, and places wherein
customerc thereof actively participate without making bets or wagers, including but not
limited to night clubs, or day clubs, cocktail lounges, cabarets or dance hall, karaoke bars,
skating rinks, bath houses, swimming pools, exclusive clubs such as country and sports
club, resorts and other similar places, billiard and pool tables, bowling alleys;
On Subdivision Ownerc/Private Cemeteries and Memorial Parlo;
On Privately-Owned Markets;
On Therapeutic Clin iu, Laboratories;
The same rates of graduated taxes, viz:
Gross Sales/Receipts for the Preceding Calendar Year
Amount of
Tax Per Annum
Less than 50,000.00
50,000.00 or more but less than 75,000.00
75,000.00 or more but less than 100,000.00
100,000.00 or more but less than 150,000.00
150,000.00 or more but less than 200,000.00
200,000.00 or more but less than 250,000.00
250,000.00 or more but less than 300,000.00
300,000.00 or more but less than 400,000.00
400,000.00 or more but less than 500,000.00
500,000.00 or more but less than 750,000.00
1,497.38
L,721.83
2,0L4.65
2,357.08
2,757.59
3,226.47
3,775.20
4,416.50
5,299.80
6,360.97

750,000.00 or more but less than 1,000,000.00
1,000,000.00 or more but less than 2,000,000.00
In excess 2,000,000.00
Ord. No. 0291-17
7,633,29
9,160.31
At a rate of forty-three percent
(43o/o ) of one percent (1olo )
(h) On aty other Business, not otherwise specified in the preceding paragraphs -
shall be taxed at the rate two (2%o) percent of the gross sales or receipts of the preceding
calendar year, such as but not limited to the following;
1.) Owners, providers or operators of Information Technologies including
softrruare developers and/or providers, computer programming, internet,
cal! centers, E-Commerce, design animation and other IT-related seruice
activities.
2.) Malls, shopping centers, hospitals and establishments not primarily
engaged in the business of parking spaces but are otherwise operating or
maintaining lots / spaces for parking purposes.
3.) Providers of seminars, vocational trainings, and other teaching seruices
such as but not limited to centers or training schools for acting, dancing,
singing, culinary.arts, fine afts, tattoo afts, interior and fashion designs
(other than those offered by educational institutions),
4.) Proprietors of funeral parlors and crematoriums engaged not only in the
selling of memorial lots, mausoleums, but likewise engaged in the retail of
caskets and urns.
5.) Fees charged by mall owners maintaining toilets / powder rooms / comfort
rooms for a fee.
6.) Business activities or undertaking not otherwise stated in this code.
(i)
On Authorized Franchise Car Dealers
Imposition of Tax - There is hereby levied an annual tax on the following
business undeftakings at the rates prescribed herein:
i.l On Car Dealers engaged in the business of selling brand new vehicles
and genuine parts pursuant to a valid and existing dealership agreement with
manufacturers and distributors shall be taxed as follows:

Ord. No. 029t-17
CAR DEALERS
From
To Less Than
Annual Tax
Php 100,000,000.00
90.75o/o of 1.0olo of gross
receipts
Php 100,000,000.00
Php2,000,000,000.00
Php907,500.00 plus
60.500/o of 1.0olo of gross
receipts in excess of
Php100,000,000.00
Php2,000,000,000.00
Php3,000,000,000.00
PhpL2,402,500.00 plus
22.0o/o of 1.0olo of gross
receipt in excess of
Php2,000,000,000.00
and above
PhpL4,6A2,500.00 plus
11olo of L.lo/o of gross
receipts in excess of
Php3,000,000,000.00
Php3,000,000,000.00
i.2 On Spare Pafts and Services of Car Dealers with Valid and Existing
Dealership Agreement, tax rate is as follows:
SPARE PARTS:
From
To Less Than
Annual Tax
Php10,000,000.00
2.2o/o
Php10,000,000.00
Php20,000,000.00
Php220,000.00 plus 1.650/o
of gross receipts in excess
of Php10,000,000.00
Php20,000,000.00
Php 30,000,000.00
Php385,000.00 plus L.to/o
of gross receipts in excess
of Php20,000,000.00
Php 30,000,000.00
and above
Php495,000.00 plus
60.500/o of lo/o of gross
receipts in excess of
Php30,000,000.00
I.5
SERVICES
From
To Less Than
Annual Tax
Php50,000,000.00
90.75o/o of 1.0olo
Php50,000,000.00
Php100,000,000.00
Php453,750.00 plus
60.500/o of 1.0olo of gross
receipts in excess of
Php50,000,000.00
Php100,000,000.00
and above
Php756,250.00 plus
27.50o/o of 1.0olo of gross
receipts in excess of
Php100,000,000.00

No.0291-17
SECTION 77, Ptesumptive fncome Level, - For every tax period, the ffice of the
City Treasurer shall prepare a stratified schedule of "presumptive income level" to validate
the declarations of gross receipts of each business classification.
SECTION 78. Tax on Newly-Stafted Business, ' In the case of a newly-stafted
business under this Article, the tax shall be One-Twentieth of One percent (1/20 of 1olo) of
the asset size. In the succeeding calendar year, regardless of when the business started to
operate, the tax shall be based on the gross receipts for the preceding calendar year or any
fraction thereof, as provided in the pertinent schedules in this Article.
Article Eleven. - Situs of the Tax
SECTION 79. Situs of the Tax.
(a) For purposes of collection of the business tax under the "situs" of the tax law
the following definition of terms and guidelines shall be strictly observed:
The city or municipality specifically mentioned in the Afticles of Incorporation or
official registration papers as being the official address or said principal office shall be
considered as the situs thereof.
In case there is a transfer or relocation of the principal office to another city or
municipality, it shall be the duty of the owner, operator or manager of the business to
give due notice of such transfer or relocation to the City Mayor within fifteen (15) days
after such transfer or relocation is effected.
2.
Branch or Sales Office - a fixed place in a locality which conducts operations of
the businesses as an extension of the principal office. A warehouse which accepts
orders and/or issues sales invoices independent of a branch with sales office shal! be
considered as a sales office.
3.
Warehouse - a building utilized for the storage of products for sale, from which
goods or merchandise are withdrawn for delivery to customers or dealers, or by
persons acting on behalf of the business. A warehouse that does not accept orders
and/or issue sales invoices as aforementioned shall not be considered a branch or
sales office.
4.
Plantation - a tract of agricultural land planted to trees or seedlings whether
fruit bearing or not, uniformly spaced or seeded by broadcast methods or normally
arranged to allow highest production. For purpose of this Article, inland fishing
ground shall be considered as plantation.
5.
Experimental Farms - agricultural lands uUlized by a business or corporation to
conduct studies, tests, researches or experiments involving agricultura!, agri-business,
marine or aquatic livestock, poultry, dairy and other similar products for the purpose
of improving the quality and quantity of goods and products.
However, on-site sales of commercial quantity made in experimental farms
shall be similarly imposed the corresponding tax under SECTION 76, Article Ten of this
Code and allocated under paragraph (b) of this Article.
Page
Ord.

Ord. No. 029L-L7
(b) Sales Allocation
1.
All sales made in Davao City where there is branch or sales office or warehouse
shall be recorded in said branch or sales office or warehouse and the tax shall be
payable to the City where the same is located.
2.
If the business concerned has no branch office or sales outlet in Davao City,
the sale or transaction may be recorded in the place where the principal office of the
said business is located. The taxes, however, shall accrue and be paid to Davao City
where the sale or transaction was made or consummated, associated with the delivery
of the afticles, commodities or things which are the subject matter of the contract of
sale.
3.
In cases where there is a fuctory, project office, plant or plantation in pursuit of
business, thirty percent (30o/o) of all sales recorded in the principal office shall be
taxable by the city where the principal office is Iocated and seventy percent (70o/o) of
all sales recorded in the principal office shall be taxable by the city where the factory,
pCIect office, plant or plantation is located.
The sales allocation in (a) and (b) above shall not apply to experimental farms
4.
In case of a plantation located in a locality other than that where the factory is
located, said seventy percent (70o/o) sales allocation shall be divided as follows:
a. Sixty percent (600/o) to the city where the factory is located; and
b. Forty percent (40o/o) to the city where the plantation is located.
5.
In cases where there are two (2) or more factories, project offices, plants or
plantations located in different localities, the seventy percent (70olo) sales allocation
shall be pro-rated among the localities where such factories, project offices, plants
and plantations are located in proportion to their respective volumes of production
during the period for which the tax is due.
In the case of project offices of seruices and other independent contractors,
the term production shall refer to the costs of projects actually undeftaken during the
tax period.
6.
The foregoing sales allocation under par. (3) hereof shall be applied
irrespective of whether or not sales are made in the locality where the factory project
office, plant or plantation is located. In case of sales made by the factory, proJect
office, plant or plantation, the sale shall be covered by paragraph (1) or (2) above.
7.
In case of manufacturers or producers which engage the services of an
independent conUactor to produce or manufacture some of their products, the rules
on situs of taxation provided in this afticle as clarified in the paragraphs above shall
apply except that the factory or plant and warehouse of the contractor utilized for the
production or storage of the manufacture/s products shall be considered as the
factory or plant and warehouse of the manufacturer.

Ord. No. 029t-I7
8.
All sales made by the factory, project office, plant or plantation located in this
City shall be recorded in the branch or sales office which is similarly located herein
and shall be taxable by this City. In case there is no branch or sales office or
warehouse in this City, but the principal office is located therein, the sales made in the
factory shall be taxable by this City along with the sales made in the principal office.
(c) Poft of Loading - the City where the poft of loading is located shall not levy and
collect the tax imposable under Afticle Ten (10) Chapter 2 of this Code unless the expofter
maintain in said City its principal office, a branch, sales office, warehouse, factory plant or
plantation in which case the foregoing rule on the matter shal! apply accordingly.
(d) Route Sales - sales made by route trucks, vans or vehicles in this City where a
manufacturer, producer, wholesaler, maintains a branch or sales office or warehouse shall be
recorded in the branch or sales offce or warehouse and shall be taxed herein.
This City shal! tax the sales of the products withdrawn by route truck from the
branch, sales office or warehouse located herein but sold in another locality.
Afticle Twelve. - Payment of Business Taxes
SECTION 8O. Payment of Business Taxes,
(a) The taxes imposed under SECTION 76 of this Code shall be payable for every
separate or distinct establishment or place where the business subject to the tax
is
conducted and one line of business does not become exempted by being
conducted with some other businesses for which such tax has been paid. The tax on a
business must be paid by the person conducting the same.
The conduct or operation of two or more related businesses provided for under
SECTION 76 of this Code by any one person, natural or juridical, shal! require the issuance of a
separate permit or license to each business.
(b) In cases where a person conducts or operates two (2) or more of the businesses
mentioned in SECTION 76 of this Code which are subject to the same rate of imposition, the
tax shall be computed on the combined total gross sales or receipts of the said two (2) or
more related businesses.
(c) In cases where a person conducts or operates two (2) or more businesses
mentioned in SECTION 76 of this Code which are subject to different rates of imposition, the
taxable gross sales or receipts of each business shall be repofted independently and tax
thereon shall be computed on the basis of the peftinent schedule.
SECTION 81. Accrual of Payrnent ' Unless specifically provided in this Atticle, the
taxes imposed herein shall accrue on the first day of January of each year.
SECTION 82. Time of Payment, - The tax shall be paid once within the first
twenty (20) days of January or in quafterly installmenE within the first twenty (20) days of
January, April, July, and October of each year. The SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod may, for a
justifiable reason or cause, extend the time for payment of such taxes without surcharges or
penatties, but only for a period not exceeding six (6) months.

Page72
Ord. No. 029t-L7
SECTION 83. Administrative Provisions,
(a) Rquirement Any person who shall establish, operate or conduct any business,
trade or activity mentioned in this Article in this city shall first obtain a Mayor's Permit and
pay the fee therefore and the business tax imposed under the pertinent Article.
(b) Issuance and Posting of Official Receipt The City Treasurer shall issue an officia!
receipt upon payment of the business tax. Issuance of the said official receipt shall not
relieve the ta<payer of any requirement imposed by the different departnents of this city.
Every percon issued an official receipt for the conduct of a business or undertaking
shall keep the same conspicuously posted in plain view at the place of business or
undeftaking. If the individual has no fixed place of business or office, he shall keep the
official receipt in his percon. The receipt shall be produced upon demand by the City Mayor,
City Treasurer, or their duly authorized representatives.
(c) Invoices or ReceipB. All persons subject to the taxes on business shall, for
each sale or transfer of merchandise or goods, or for seruices rendered, valued at TwentyFive Pesos (P 25.00) or more at any one time, prepare and issue sales or commercial
invoices and receipts serially numbered in duplicate, showing among others, their names
or styles, if any, and business address. The original of each sales invoice or receipts shal!
be issued to the purchaser or customer and the duplicate to be kept and preserued by the
person subject to the said tax, in his place of business for a period of five (5) years. The
receipts or invoices issued pursuant to the requirement of the Bureau of Interna! Revenue
for determination of national internal revenue taxes shall be sufficient for purposes of this
Code.
(d) Swom Statement of Gros ReceipB or Sales. Operatorc of business subject to
the taxes on business shall submit a sworn statement of their assets before the staft of their
business operations and upon application for a Mayo/s permit to operate the business. Upon
payment of the tax levied in this Article, any person engaged in business subject to the
business tax paid based on gross sales and/or receipts shall submit a sworn statement of his
gross sales/receipts for the preceding calendar year or quarter in such manner and form as
may be prescribed by the City Treasurer. Should the taxpayer fail to submit a sworn
statement of gross sales or receipts, due among others or his failure to have a book of
accounts, records or subsidiaries for his business, the City Treasurer or his authorized
representatives may veriff or assess the gross sales or receipts of the taxpayer under the
best available evidence upon which the tax may be based.
After January 20, any adjustment in the declaration of gross sales, whether voluntary
or involuntary shall be subject to a corresponding penalty of two percent (2o/o) per month.
(e) Submission of Certifid Inome Tax Return Copy. All persons who are granted
a permit to conduct an activity or business and who are liable to pay the business tax
provided in this Code shall submit a ceftified photocopy of their income tax returns (ffR)
on or before April 30 of each year. The deficiency in the business tax arising out of the
difference in gross receipts or sales declared in the application for Mayor's Permit/
Declaration of gross sales or receipts and the gross receipts or sales declared in the ITR
shall be payable on or before May 20 of the same year with interest at the rate of ten
percent (10o/o) corresponding to the two percent (2o/o) per month from January to May.

Ord. No. 029t-L7
Payments of the deficiency tax made after May 20 shall be subject to the twenty-five
percent (25o/o) surcharge and two percent (2o/o) interest for every month counted from
January up to the month payment is made.
(D Submission of list of Sub-@ntactorc. All general building contractors are
required to submit to the Permits and Licensing Division the list of sub-contractors with
projects located in the City of Davao. The list must be approved, inclusive of the amount
of contract price, duly notarized and must be accompanied by the respective sub-contract
agreement.
(g) Issuane of Certification. The City Treasurer may, upon presentation of a
satisfactory proof that the original receifi has been lost, stolen or destroyed, issue a
certification to the effect that the business tax has been paid, indicating therein, the number
of the official receipt issued, upon payment of a fee of One Hundred Pesos (P100.00).
(h) Transfer of Busines to Other Loation. Any business for which a city business
tax has been paid by the percon conducting tt, may be transfened and continued in any
other place within the territorial limits of this city without payment of additional tax during
the period for which the payment of the tax was made.
(i)
Termination of Busines. Any person natural or juridical who discontinues,
closes, or terminates business operation(s) shall be subject to the payment of taxes, fees
and charges on business. Within the period of thifi (30) days of the discontinuance,
closure, or termination of business, shall surrender to the Permits and Licensing Division
the latest original business permiVlicense, present latest official receipt issued for the
payment of the business taxes, and submit a sworn statement of the gross sales or
receipts for the current year or quafter so the corresponding taxes can then be assessed
and collected before any business or undertaking is finally terminated.
The following documents should support the application for termination of business:
1. Latest Audited Financial Statement for verification of the gross sales or receipts
of the business. In the case of branches, sales, offices, factories, or warehouses located
outside Davao City, breakdown of gross sales or receipts, assessment and proof of
payments or Ceftified True Copies of Official Receipts evidencing payments from other
LGUs are also to be submitted.
2. Latest Mayor's Permit/License.
3. Board Resolution/Secretary's Certificate indicating the termination/cessation of
business.
4. Affidavit of Non-Operation, in case the business declares of no operations or no
gross sales/receipts had been derived.
5. In case of inconsistencies with the above submitted documents, the business
Books of Accounts will be required for examination before the business is completely
terminated.

Page74
Ord. No. 029L-L7
Termination shall mean that business operations are stopped completely. Any
change in ownership, management and/or name of the business shall not constitute
termination as herein contemplated. Unless stated otherwise, assumption of the business
by any new owner or manager or re-registration of the same business under a new name
will only be considered for record purposes in the course of the renewal of the permit or
license to operate the business.
The City Treasurer shall see to it that the payment of taxes of a business is not
avoided by simulating the termination or cessation thereof. For this purpose, the following
procedural guidelines shall be strictly followed:
1.
The City Treasurer shall assign every application for the termination or
cessation of business to an inspector in his office who shall conduct an ocular
inspection to veriff the veracity of the application. If the resulb of such
inspection/verification are contrary to what was stated in the application, the City
Treasurer shall recommend to the City Mayor the disapproval of the application of
the termination or cessation of said business. The business shall continue to be
liable for the payment of all taxes, fees, and charges imposed thereon under this
Code.
2.
In the case of a new owner to whom the business was transferred by sale or
other form of conveyance, said new owner shall be liable to pay the tax or fee for
the business and shall secure a new Mayo/s permit therefore.
3.
The pennit issued to a business terminating its operations shall be presented
to the City Treasurer who shall fofthwith cancel the same and record such
cancellation in his books.
0)
Death of Liensee. When any individual paying a business tax die$ and the
business is continued by a person interested in his estate, no additional payment shal! be
required for the residue of the term for which the tax was paid.
Afticle Thifteen. - Tax on Peddlers
SECTION 4. Tax on Peddlerc, - Peddlers engaged in the sale of any merchandise
or afticle of commerce shall secure a special peddlers permit and pay the corresponding
fees:
a.
Peddlers of any afticle or merchandise carried in trucks or jeeps or delivery
panels, cars or any other vehicle
P 1,000.00
b.
Peddlers of any article or merchandise carried in motorized bicycle, tricycle
or similar motorized vehicle not specified above (A)...... P 400.00
c.
Peddlers of any afticle or merchandise carried in a non-motorized or any
anima! drawn vehicle ....
P 200.00

Ord. No. 029L-L7
SECTION 85. Etremption, - Delivery Eucks, vans or vehicles used by
manufacturerc, producerc, wholesalers, dealers or retailers enumerated under SECTION 72 of
this C.ode shall be exempt from the peddlerc tax herein imposed.
SECTION 86. fime of Payment -The tax herein imposed shall be payable within
the first twenty (20) days of January. An individual who will start to peddle merchandise or
afticles of commerce after January 20 shall pay the full amount of the tax before engaging in
such activity.
Afticle Fourteen. - Tax on Mining Operations
SECTION 87. Tax on Mining Operations, - There is hereby levied an annual tax
at the rate of one and sixty -five percent (1.650/o) based on the gross receipts for the
preceding year of mining companies and/or entities operating in the City.
SECTION 88. Sitns of the Tax - Payment of the tax shall be made to Davao City
which has jurisdiction over the mining area.
SECTION 89. Ecclusion,
coverage of the tax levied herein:
Extraction of the following are o<cluded from the
(a) Minera! Products such as ordinary stones, sand, gravel, eafth and other quarry
resources;
(b) Indigenous petroleum such as mineral oil, hydrocarbon gas, bitumen, crude
asphalt, mineral gas and all other similar or naturally associated substances.
SECTION 90. Time of Payment - The tax shall be paid once wiilrin the first
twenty (20) days of January or in quafterly installments within the first twenty (20) days of
January, April, July, and October of each year.
SECTION 9L. Administrative Provision,
(a) The Cfi Treasurer shall keep a registry of mining operators on which all
insffiuments concerning mining righE, such as acquisiUon, sub-lease, operating agreemenB,
transferc, assignments, condonement cancellation and otherc, are recorded.
(b) It shall be the duty of every lessee, owner, or operator to make a true and
complete retum setting forth the quantity and the actual market value of the minerals or
mineral products or quarry resources to be removed.
Afticle Fifteen. - Tax on Forest Products
SECTION 92. Tax on Forcst Ptoduc&, -fiere is hereby imposed a tax on forest
products at a rate of one and sixty-five percent (1.650lo) of the annual gross receipts derived
during the preceding year on companies and/or entities operating in the City.

Ord. No. 029L-L7
SECTION 93. Time of Payment -The tax shall be paid once within the first twenty
(20) days of January or in quafterly installments within the first twenty (20) days of January,
April, July, and October of each year.
CHAPTER 3: PERMIT AND REGULATORY FEES
Afticle One. - Mayor's Permit Fee on Business
SECTION 94, Mayofs Permit Fee, - It shall be unlawfill for any person or entity
to conduct or engage in any business, trade or occupation within the territorialjurisdiction of
the City of Davao for which a permit is required for the proper supeMsion and enforcement
of existing laws and ordinances governing the sanitaUon, security and welfare of the public
and the health of the employees engaged in the business, Uade or occupation specified in
this Revenue Code and other ordinances that may hereafter be enacted, without first having
secured a permit therefor from the City Mayor and paying the necessary fees to the City
Treasurer.
There shall be collected an annual fee at the rate provided hereunder for the
issuance of a Mayor's permit to every person whether natural or juridical that shall
conduct a business, trade or activity within the City of Davao. The permit is payable for
every separate or distinct establishment or single physical location where the business,
trade or activity is conducted.
All establishments or entities enjoying tax incentive, tax exemption or tax relief
operating within the territorial jurisdiction of the City of Davao shall be subject to pay
Mayor's Permit fee and other regulatory fees under this chapter.
The imposition of Mayo/s Permit and other regulatory fees is herein provided to
regulate any business activity or undeftaking conducted within the city. This power to
regulate emanates from the police power of the City of Davao.
For purposes of the Mayor's Permit Fee, the following Philippine definition of
business size is hereby adopted:
Characteristics
Cottage
Php 499,999.00 and below
Small
Php 500,000.00 up to
Php 1,999,999.00
Medium
Php 2,000,000.00 to
Php 9,999,999.00
Large
Php 10,000,000.00 and above
On business subject to Graduated Fixed Taxes:
t. On Manufacturers/Importers/Producers
Cottage
Php
2,000.00
Annual Fee

Page77
Ord. No. 0291-L7
Small
Medium
Large
2. On Banks
Rural, Thrift and Savings Banks
Commercia!, Industrial and
Development BanK
Universal Banks
3. On Other Financial Institutions
Cottage
Small
Medium
Large
4. On Contractors/Service Establishments
Cottage
Small
Medium
Large
5. On Wholesalers/Retailers/Dealerc or Disb'ibutors
Cottage
Small
Medium
Large
6. On Transloading Operations
Cottage
Small
Medium
Large
7. Other Businesses
Cottage
Small
Medium
Large
5,000.00
8,000.00
10,000.00
5,000.00
8,000.00
10,000.00
2,000.00
5,000.00
8,000.00
10,000.00
1,000.00
1,200.00
2,500,00
6,000.00
2,000.00
5,000.00
8,000.00
10,000.00
2,000.00
5,000.00
8,000.00
10,000.00
1,000.00
2,000.00
4,000.00
6,000.00
SECTION 95. fime and Manner of Payment - The fee for the issuance of a
Mayo/s Permit shall be paid to the City Treasurer upon applicaUon before any business or
undertaking can be lawfully begun or pursued and within the first twenty (20) days of
January of each year in case of renewal thereof.
For a newly-stafted business or activity ffat starts to operate after January 20, the fee
shall be reckoned from the beginning of the calendar quarter. When the business or activity
is abandoned, the fee shal! not be exacted for a period longer than the end of the calendar
quarter. If the fee has been paid for a period longer than the cunent quafter and the
business activity is abandoned, no refund of the fee corresponding to the unexpired quarter
or quarters shall be made.

Ord. No. 029L-17
SECTION 96, Administrative Provisions,
(a) Superuision and Control Over Establishmenb and Places. The City Mayor shall
superuise and regulate al! establishments and places subject to the payment of the permit
fee. He shall prescribe rules and regulations as to the mode or manner on which they shall
be conducted in so far as may be necessary to maintain peaceful, healthy, and sanitary
conditions in the city.
(a.L) AuthoW to clos and/or open business establishment -A closure order
may be issued by the City Mayor through the
Business Bureau to any establishment operating a business in violation of any provision of
this Ordinance or existing laws, ordinances and orders. In adherence to due process, no
establishment shall be closed without the obseruance of the two (2) prior notices.
However, business establishment operating without the necessary business permit
shall be summarily closed upon inspection.
The closure shall be effected through the posting of a closure notice and/or
padlocking of the establishment.
The closure notice attached or the padlock used in the closure of the business shall
not be deliberately detached nor removed by the taxpayer concerned. Failure of the
taxpayer to obserue such regulation shall be a ground for perpetual disqualification to
secure business permit and payment of fine under SECTION 448. A closure order may be
lifted upon order of the City Mayor, through his authorized representative, provided a
business permit has been issued in favor of the taxpayer concerned, and a letter request
to lift the closure order addressed to the head of the Business Bureau had been given due
course.
When public safety or interest requires, the City Mayor or his duly authorized
representative shall cause the immediate revocation and cancellation of the business
permiVmayo/s permit without prejudice to the immediate closure of the establishment
and the filing of an appropriate criminal case/s as the circumstances warrant.
(b) Application br Mayo/s Permit: False Statement An application for a Mayor's
Permit shall be filed with the Office of the City Mayor through the Business Bureau. The form
for the purpose shall be issued by the same Office and shall set forth the requisite
information including the name and residence of the applicant, the description of business or
undeftaking that is to be conducted, and such other data or information as may be
required.
t.
For a newly-stafted business
a)
Location Sketch of the new business;
b)
Paid-up capital of the business as shown in the Afticles of Incorporation,
if a corporation or paftnership, or a Sworn Statement of the capital
invested by the owner or operator, for a sole proprietorship;
c)
A Ceftificate attesting to the tax exemption if the business is tax
exempt;
d)
Certification from the office in charge of zoning that the location of the
new business is in accordance with zoning regulations;

Ord. No. 029L-L7
e)
Tax Clearance showing that the operator has paid all tax obligations in
the City;
Barangay Clearance;
The City may issue any license or permit for any business or
activity unless a clearance is first obtained from the barangay where such
business activity is located or conducted. For such clearance, the Barangay
may impose a reasonable fee. The application for clearance shal! be acted
upon within seven (7) working days from the filing thereof. In the event that
the clearance is not issued within the said period, the City may issue the said
license or permit.
g)
Valid Identification of the owner or operator, or in cases of
partnership or corporation the Valid IDt of the senior or managing paftners
and that of the President or Corporate Secretary
h)
Health Certificate for all food handlers, and those required under this
Code.
i)
Lease Contract between the lessor and the lessee. If leased, attach
Mayo/s Permit registration of the building owner/landlord as a Real
Estate Lessor. If not, Lease Contract between the Lessee and SubLessee with conformity of the owner of the Building Administration. If
owned, Transfer Certificate of TItle OCT) or Tax Declaration
(photocopy);
j)
Other peftinent documents, information or data as may be required or
mandated by an existing ordinance or laws for that matter.
2.
For lenewal of existing Business Permits
a)
Previous yea/s Mayo/s Permit;
b)
Original copies of the annual or quafterly tax payments;
c)
Original copies of all receipts showing payment of all regulatory fees as
provided for in this Code;
d)
Available Financial Statement of the previous year.
e)
Barangay Clearance
Other peftinent documents as may be required by existing law.
Upon submission of the application, it shall be the duty of the proper authorities to
veriff if other city requirements regarding the operation of the business or activity such as
sanitary requirements, installation of power and light requiremenB, as well as other safety
requirements are complied with. The permit to operate shall be issued only upon compliance
with such safety requirements and after the payment of the conesponding inspection fees
and other impositions required by this Revenue Code and other city tax ordinances.
Any false statement deliberately made by the applicant shall constitute sufficient
ground for denying or revoking the permit issued by the Mayor, and the applicant or licensee
may be prosecuted in accordance with the penalties provided in this Article.
A Mayo/s Permit shall be refused to (1) any person who previously violated any
ordinance or regulation goveming permits granted; (2) whose business establishment or
undeftaking does not conform with zoning regulations, and safety, health and other
requirements of the city; (3) who has unsettled tax obligation, debt or other liability to the

Page B0
Ord. No. 029L-t7
governmenU (4) who is disqualified under any provision of law or ordinance to establish or
operate the business applied for.
Likewise, a Mayo/s permit shall be denied to any person or applicant for a business
who declares an amount of gross sales or receipts that are manifestly below industry
standards or the Presumptive Income Level of gross sales or receipts as established in the
city for the same or a closely similar type of activity or business.
(c) Issuane of Pemit; C.ontenB of Pemit, Upon approval of the application of a
Mayo/s Permtt, two (2) copies of the application duly signed by the City Mayor shall be
retumed to the applicant. One (1) copy shall be presented to the City Treasurer as basis for
the collection of the Mayo/s Permit fee and the corresponding business tax.
The Mayo/s Permit shall be issued by the City Mayor upon presentation of the receipt
for the payment of the Mayo/s Permit and the officia! receipt issued by the City Treasurer for
the payment of the business tax. Every permit issued by the Mayor shal! show the name and
residence of the applicant his nationality and marita! status; nature of the organization, that
is, whether the business is a sole proprietorship, corporaUon or paftnerchip, etc.; location of
the business; date of issue and expiration of the permi$ and other information as may be
necessary. The city shall, upon presentaUon of satisfactory proof that the original of the
permit has been !ost, stolen or destroyed, issue a duplicate of the permit upon the payment
of One Hundred Pesos (P 100.00).
(d) Posting of Pemit. Every permittee shall keep his permit conspicuously posted at
all times in his place of business or offtce or if he has no place of business or office, he shall
keep the permit in his person. Upon demand by the City Mayor or City Treasurer or any of
their duly authorized representatives, permittee shall immediately produce the permit.
For non-posting of business permit in a conspicuous place within the business
establishment, a penalty of One Hundred Pesos (P 100.00) per day shall be imposed until
such time the permit shall be posted but in no case shall it be more than Five Thousand
Pesos (P 5,000.00).
(e) Duration of Permit and Renewal. The Mayols Permit shall be granted for a period
of not more than one (1) year and shall expire on the thirty-first (31st) of December
following the date of issuance unless revoked or surrendered earlier. Every permit shall
cease to be in force upon revocation or surrender tJrereof. The permit issued shall be
renewed within the first twenty (20) days of January. It shall have a continuing validity only
upon renewal thereof and payment of the conesponding fee.
(0 Revocation of Permit When a person doing business under the provisions of this
Code violates any provision thereof, refuses to subject his business establishment to
inspection or to pay an indebtedness or liability to the city or abuses his privilege to do
business to the injury of the public moral or peace or used the said privilege to convict any
unlawful acts or unlawful manner, is a nuisance, or is permitted to be used as a resort for
disorderly characterc, criminals or place used for prostitution, the City Mayor may, after
investigation, revoke the Mayo/s Permit. Such revocation shall operate to forfeit all sums
which may have been paid in respect of said privilege, in addition to the fines and
imprisonment that maybe imposed by the Couft for violation of any provision of this
Ordinance governing the establishment and maintenance of business and other existing laws,

No.0291-17
and to prohibit the exercise thereof by the person whose privilege is revoked, until restored
by the City Mayor.
Refusal to subject a business establishment to inspection, cancellation of
Franchise AgreemenVDealership Agreement or want of lawful possession of the propefi of
which the business permit was issued, shall be a sufficient ground for cancellation or
termination of the business permrt, regardless of whether a case is being filed and/or
pending before a competent court, neveftheless the same without prejudice to the outcome
of the case being filed before the couft.
(g) Unilateral cancellation or termination by one of the pafties of the
Franchise/Dealership Agreement, or Contract of Lease involving the property of which the
Mayor's Permit was issued, does not constitute a sufficient ground for the revocation of
the Mayor's Permit. The Business Bureau shall obserue the status quo, except when an
Order is issued by the court enjoining the former to rule otherwise.
(h) Upon recommendation of the Licensing Officer and with the approval of the
Head of the Business Bureau, the office is empowered to adjust and increase taxpayer's
capital investment every five (5) years or as often as necessary to effect the increase of
capital investment.
SECTION 97, Rules and Regulations on Certain Establishments,
(A) On restauranb, cafes, cafeterias, carenderias, eateries, food caterers, ice
cream and other refreshment parlors, soda fountain bars. No owner of said establishments
shall employ any cook, or food dispenser without a Food Handler's Ceftificate from the City
Health Officer, renewable every six (6) months.
(B) Establishments selling cooked and readily edible foods shall have them
adequately covered and protected from dust, flies and other insects, and shall follow strictly
the rules and regulations on sanitation promulgated by the City Health Officer and existing
laws or ordinances.
(C) Sauna bath, massage, barber and beauty shops. Said shops shal! not be
allowed to operate with masseurs, barbers, and beauUcians without having secured the
necessary corresponding health ceftificate from the City Health Officer.
(D) No owner or operator of privately-owned market, mall, shopping center
and/or food center and real estate lessor of commercia! building and commercial
apaftment shall allow any of its tenants to operate their respective businesess without first
securing Mayor's permit required of them under the existing laws.
(E) Owner or operator of privately-owned market, mall, shopping center and or
food center and real estate lessor of commerical building and commercial apaftment shall
furnish the City Mayor or his duly authorized representative, in a sworn statement, on or
before January 20 of the year, an annual list of business establishments/tenants in his/her
establishment.
(F) Owners or operators of business establishments who fail to submit such list,
signed under oath, shall be subject to the payment imposed under the provision of SECTION
448 of this Code, without prejudice to the revocation of their existing business permit
Page
Ord.

(b)
Ord. No. 0291-17
and/or closure of their business establishments at the discretion of the City Mayor or his
duly authorized representative.
(G) Owners or operators of videokaraoke, sing-along, or bars, restaurants or
eateries or similar establishments offering videoke, accoustic shows and live bands to the
public with no enclosures sufficient to minimize or muffle the sound emanating therefrom,
should limit their operations up to 10 P.M.
(H) Owners or operators are prohibited to allow or permit any exhibition of any
indecent or immoral play, scenes, acts or shows, whether live or in film which: (a) gloriff
criminals or condone crimes (b) serue no other purpose but to satisff the market for
violence, lust or pornography; (c) offend any race or religion; (d) tend to commodiff,
abuse and humiliate women; (e) tend to abet traffic in and use of prohibited drugs and (f)
contrary to law, public order, morals, customs, established policies, lawful orders or
decrees and edicts.
Afticle Two. - Permit Fee for Cockpit Ownerc/ Operatorc/
Licensees/ Promoterc and Cockpit Perconnel
SECTION 98. fmposition of Fees, - There shall be collected the following Mayor's
Permit Fees from cockpit operators/ owners/ licensees and cockpit personnel:
(a) From the owner/ operator/ licensees of the cockpit:
1.
2.
3.
4.
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
Application Filing Fee
P
Annual Cockpit Permit Fee
a. In Talomo, Agdao, Buhangin
b. In other districts
Plazada - One percent (lo/o) of the winning bet
Sultada
Promoters/Hosts
Pit Manager
Referee
Bet Taker "Kisto/Llamador"
Bet Manager "Maciador/Kasadof'
Gaffer "Mananari"
Cashier
Derby (Matchmaker)
Handler
P
100.00
10,000.00
5,000.00
100.00
From Cockpit Personnel
1,000.00
400.00
400.00
200.00
2100.00
200.00
400.00
400.00
400.00
SECTION 99. Liansing the Cockpib, - Subject to the provisions of Book tr of
Republic Act 7160, the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod shall enact an Ordinance authorizing the
issuance of licenses to operate cockpits in the City of Davao purcuant to the provisions of
Article 99 SECTION (a) Subsection (3) Paragraph (v) of the Rules and Regulations
Implementing the Local Government Code of 1991. The following requirements must be
fully complied with prior to the issuance of licenses:

Page 83,
Ord. No. 029L-t7
a)
New Licens:
1.
Location and Vicinity Plan of the Cockpi[
2.
Building Plan and Design as approved by the City Engineer and a
certificate by him to the effect that the cockpit was constructed in
accordance with such approved plan/design;
3.
A Ceftification by the Zoning Administrator to the effect that the cockpit
building was constructed in the area allowed by the Zoning Ordinance
.and that it is not within a radius of 200 meters from any existing
residential or commercial area, hospitals, school buildings, churches or
other public buildings;
4.
fficial Receipts showing payments of the required City taxes and fees;
5.
Sanitary Permit/Clearance.
b) Annual Renewal:
1. Official Receipts showing payments of the required City taxes and fees
before the date of renewal of application, a certification from the City Engineer
to the effect that such cockpit is free from material, structural or other physical
hazards.
SECTION 100. Registation of Cockpib, dl! cockpits in Davao City after having
been granted authority to operate by the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod shall register with the City
Mayor through the Business Bureau. No cockpits shall be allowed to operate without the
proper regisffation certificate. In order to secure a registration certificate, the applicant shall
submit the following documents:
1. An application stating therein the name of the cockpit;
2. A copy of the location and vicinity plan of the cockpig
3. A copy of the cockpit building plan/design;
4. A certified copy of the Mayo/s PermiflLicense;
5. A copy of the Sanitary PermiVClearance;
6. Xerox copy/copies of the official receipt of payments;
7. Two (2) perspective photographs of the cockpiU
8. A list of all duly licensed personnel and copy of their respective licenses.
SECTION 101. Time and Manner of Payment
(a) The application filing fee is payable to the City Treasurer upon application for a
permit or license to operate and maintain cockpits.
(b) The cockpit registration fee is also payable upon application for a permit before a
cockpit can operate and shall be secured within the first twenty (20) days of January of each
year in case of renewal thereof.
(c) The permit fees on cockpit personnel shall be paid before they participate in a
cockfight and shall be paid annually upon renewal of the permit on the bifth month of the
permittee.
(d) Every application for the annual renewal of a license to operate or manage a
cockpit shall be submitted not later that the last working day of December of each year.

Page 84,
Ord. No.029L-I7
SECTION LO2, Administrative Provisions,
(a) Ownenhip, Operafr'on and Management of @kpit Only Filipino CiUzens not
otherwise inhibited by existing ordinances or laws shal! be allowed to own, manage and
operate cockpits. Cooperative capitalization is encouraged.
(b) Establishment of Cockpit The SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod shall determine the
number of cockpits to be allowed in this City.
(c) Cockpit-Size and Construction. Cockpits shall be constructed and operated within
the appropriate areas as prescribed in the Zoning Law or Ordinance. In the absence of such
law or ordinance, the City Mayor shall see to it that no cockpits are constructed within or
near existing residential or commercial areas, hospitals, school buildings, churches or other
public buildings. Owners, lessees, or operators of cockpits which are now in existence and
do not conform to this requirement are required to comply with these provisions within a
period to be specified by the City Mayor. Approval or issuance of building permits for the
construction of cockpits shall be made by the City Engineer in accordance with existing
ordinances, laws and practices.
(d) Taking Part in @ckfights. Only duly registered and licensed promoters,
referees, cashiers, bet managers, pit referees, bet takers, or gaffers shall take paft in all
kinds of cocKights held in this City. No operator or owner of a cockpit shall employ or allow
to pafticipate in a cockfight any of the above-mentioned personnel unless he has registered
and paid the fee herein required.
(e) Upon payment of the fees herein imposed, the corresponding Mayo/s Permit
shall be issued.
SECTION 103. Applicability Clau*, - The provision of PD 449, otherwise known
as the CockfighUng Law of L974, PD 1802 (Creating the Philippine Game fowl Commission),
and such other pertinent laws shall apply to all matters regarding the operation of cockpits
and the holding of cockfights in this City.
Article Three. - Special Permit Fee for Cockfighting
SECTION 104. fmposition of Fees, - There shall be collected the following fees
per day for cockfighting:
(a) Special Cockfights (Pintakasi)
First three (3) days
Succeeding days
(b) Special Derby Assessment from Promoters of :
Two-Cock Derby
Three-Cock Derby
Four{ock Derby
Five-Cock Derby
More than five-cock derby
P
3,000.00
2,000.00/day
1,000.00
2,000.00
3,500.00
4,000.00
12,000.00

Ord. No. 029L-17
SECTION 105. Exclusion, - Regular cockfights i.e., those held during Sundays,
legal holidays and loca! fiestas and international derbies shall be excluded from the payment
of fees herein imposed.
SECTION 106. Time and Manner of Payment, -The fees herein imposed shall be
payable to the City Treasurer before the specia! cockfights and derbies can be laMully held.
SECTION LO7. Rules and Regulations in tfie Issuance of Special Permib:
(a) Special Permits can be issued only under the circumstances enumerated in
paragraphs (a) and (b), SECTION 108 of this Afticle. Provided, that derbies and cocKighting
covered by these permits shall be held only on days other than Sundays and Legal
Holidays.
(b) No Special cocKighting shal! be allowed unless authorized by the
SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod through an approved resolution at least thifty (30) days before
the event.
(c) Every application shall be signed by the owner/operator of the cockpit where
such special cockfights are to be held, and countersigned by the promoter or a
representative of the beneficiary, to be suppofted with the necessary documents, as
follows:
A copy of Presidential or Mayor's Proclamation authorizing the fund raising
campaign;
Letter request of the beneficiary to the cockpit owner, operator or licensee to
stage specia! cockfights in pafticular cockpit;
Resolution of the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod during official town fiestas and
agricultural, industrial or commercial fairs, carnivals or expositions;
Resolution of the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod for the suppoft of national fund
raising campaign for charitable or other purposes as may be authorized by
the Office of the President or the City Mayor.
No international cocKight derby may be held without an approved resolution
by the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod authorizing the same for the promotion of
not more than eight (8) international cocKight derbies every year in Davao
City, for the suppoft of national fund-raising campaigns as may be
authorized by the Office of the President upon application of duly qualified
promoters and countersigned by the owner/operator or licensee of the
cockpit. Such application shall be filed at least sixty (60) days before the
scheduled international cockfight derby. In all these cases, the above
requirements are necessary.
?
SECTION LOB. Administrative Provisions,

Ord. No. 029L-17
(a) Holding of cocl<fighB. Except as provided in this Ordinance, cockfighting shall
be allowed only in licensed cockpits during Sundays and legal holidays and during local
fiestas of not more than five (5) days. It may also be held during City agricultural,
commercial, or industrial fairs, carnivals, or expositions or other significant events of the
city or its political districts, such as, but not limited to, Araw ng Dabaw, Kadayawan, affairs
of the Association of Barangay Councils (ABC), City and District Federations, affairs of the
Senior Citizens' Chapters, Cockers of the Year Award, and the like as may be determined
later, for a similar period of five (5) days upon approval of the Office of the City Mayor
through the City Council (Committee of Games and Amusements). No cockfighting shall be
held on June 12 (Philippine Independence Day), December 30 (Rizal Day), November 30
(Bonifacio Day), National Heroes Day, Holy Thursday, Good Friday, Election or
Referendum Days and during Registration Days for such election or referendum.
(b) Coclfrghting for entertainment of tourisB or for charitable and/or beneficial
purpofis Subject to the provisions of the preceding subsections upon resolution of the
SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod, the City Mayor shall issue permit licenses anytime for the holding
of cockfighB including those conducted for the enteftainment of foreign dignitaries, tourists
or "Balikbayans" and those conducted for the suppoft of national or city fundraising purposes
in licensed cockpits, provided, that each special permit granted will be for a period not
exceeding five (5) days in the city or any of its political districts.
(c) Cockfighting Officials. Gaffers, referees, bet takers, or promoters shall not act as
such in any cockfight in the City without first securing a license renewable every year on their
birth month ftom the City where such cockfighting is held. Only gaffers, referees, bet takers,
or promoters licensed by the City shall officiate in all kinds of cockfighting authorized herein.
(d) Other Games during prercribed Cockfights. No gambling of any kind shall be
permitted on the premises of the cockpit or place of cockfighting during cockfights. The
owner, manager or lessees of such cockpit and the violators of this injunction shall be
criminally liable under SECTION 109 hereof.
(e) No person less than fifteen (15) years of age shall be allowed inside the premises
of the cockpit during cockfights. The Operator/Manager/Licensee shall be responsible for the
strict compliance of this rule.
(D All breeders of game fowl are required to register with the City Agriculturist. The
City Agriculturist shall furnish the City Mayor, copy furnish the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod, with
a complete record of duly registered breeders.
(g) All persons involved in cockfighting and in the operation of cockpits, including,
among others, the owner or operator of cockpits, the cockpit officials, the cockers
(aficionados) and government officers involved in the issuance of permits or licenses and
the inspection of cockpits, must obserue utmost honesty, fair play, good faith, and peace
and order.
(h) In case of complaints and protests, the Legal Officer shall take cognizance of
complaints and protests relative to the operation and management of cockpits or the
conduct of cocKights, and violation of this Ordinance, which complaints and protest must
be in wriUng and under oath. The City Legal Office shall prescribe the rules and
procedures governing such cases, subject to the approval of the City Mayor.

Ord. No. 029L-L7
SECTION 109. Appliability Clau*. The provision of PD 449, otherwise known as
the Cockfighting Law of L974, PD 1802 (Creating the Philippine Game fowl Commission), and
such other peftinent laws shall apply to all matters regarding the operation of cockpits and
the holding of cockfights in this City.
Afticle Four. - Fees on Transportation Business
and Golf Caft Ourners
SECTION 110. fmposition of Annual Fees,- There is hereby imposed an annua!
fee for every motor vehicle or water vessel on operators of public utility vehicles or
vessels, maintaining terminal, or waiting station for the purpose of carrying passengers,
rendering seruice or freight for hire from this City under a certificate of public
convenience and necessity or similar franchises:
Annual Fees
The same annual fee is hereby imposed on the owners of motorized banca and golf
caft units at the following rates, viz:
(1) Buses
(2) Prime movers with trailers & Cargo
Trucks such as:
10 wheelers & above
8 wheelers & below
(3) Tourist Buses & Vans
(4) Jeepneys, AUV's &
Car for rent/hire, motor launch
(5) Taxi
(6) other vehicle whether or not for hire
(1) Motorized Banca
(2) Golf CarVUnit
(3) Barge/RoRo/Ship
P 1,500.00
1,500.00
1,000.00
800.00
500.00
300.00
s00.00
P 400.00
1,000.00
2,000.00
SECTION 111. Exemption, - Provided that all motorized tricycles for hire, utillty
tricycles fur hire and utility tricycles shall not be subjected to the above imposition.
SECTION LLZ. Time of Payment - The tax herein imposed shall be payable within
the first twenty (20) days of January.
Afticle Five. - Permit Fee on Pedaled Tricycle
SECTION 113. Who Are Authorized to Operate, - Only Filipino Citizens,
corporation or entity, sixty percent (600/o) of the ownership of which are owned by Filipino
Citizens;
SECTION 114. Rules and Regulations in the Registration of Pedaled
Tricycle,
,,1)
I

Ord. No. 0291-17
(a) No person shal! operate a pedicab unless the same is registered with the Traffic
Division of the Davao PNP.
(b) Registration of pedicabs shall be done within the first twenty (20) days of
January of each year.
(c) Newly acquired pedicabs shall be registered within thifty (30) days from date of
acquisition without prejudice to sub-paragraph (b) hereof.
(d) Failure to register within the period specified above shall make the owner of
the pedicab liable to a fifty percent (50o/o) surcharge on the registration fee;
(e) No registration or renewal of registration shall be allowed on units, which are
unfit for public use or not roadwofthy as determined by the Chief of the Traffic Division,
Davao PNP.
SECTION 115. Imposition of Fees, - There shall be collected from the owner of
pedaled tricycle operated within the City the following annual registration fees:
Annual Fee
(a)
(b)
(c)
For hire
For commercial use
Private Use
P150.00
1s0.00
75.00
Payment of registration fees as per above rates plus the cost of plate shall be made
to the City Treasurer's Office which shall issue a conesponding receipt thereof.
A minimum insurance of Five Thousand Pesos (P 5,000.00) with a time coverage of
one year for propefi damage and physical injuries shall be required upon registration of
each pedal-operated pedicabs.
SECTION 116. Display of Plate Number and Carrying a Photostat Copy of
the Registration, -The registration plate number of a pedicab shall be prominently
displayed at the rear poftion of the pedicab clearly visible at a distance of fifteen (15)
meters and the driver/operator shall always carry his photocopy of the registration papers.
SECTION Ll7. Compliance of all TraflTc Rules and Regulations. - The driver
or operators of pedicabs shall at all times comply with the traffic rules and regulations
while operating their units.
Every pedicab being operated at night shall be equipped with light on the front
which shall emit a white light from a distance of at least sixty-five (65) meters to the front
and with a rear reflex mirror or reflectorized tape visible for a distance of sixty-five (65)
meters to the rear.
No person shall operate a pedicab unless it is equipped with a device capable of
giving a signal for a distance of at least ten (10) meters.

Ord. No. 029t-17
SECTION 118. Penalty, - The following administrative penalty shall be imposed
upon the owner/operator of the pedicab for the violations indicated hereunder:
No registration
No plate number
No light or rear red reflex mirror or warning signal device
Operating in Non-designated Areas:
First offense
Second offense
Failure to comply registration paper
2s0
P
50.00
500.00
100.00
Pedicabs operating in violation of any provision of this Article shall be impounded
and be released only upon payment of the administrative fines.
SECTION 119. fime of Paymene - The fee imposed herein shall be due on the first
(1*) day of January and payable to the City Treasurer within the first twenty (20) days of
January of every year. For pedaled tricycle acquired after the first twenty (20) days of
January, the permit fee shall be paid without the penalty within the first twenty (20) days of
the quarter following the date of purchase. Failure to register within the period specified
shall be subject to the penalty above stated.
SECTION l2O, Administrative Provisions,
(a) A metal plate or sticker shall be procured by the owner from the City
Treasurer's Office to be installed in the pedaled tricycle granted a permit.
(b) The City Treasurer shall keep a register of all pedaled tricycles containing
information such as the make and brand of the tricycle, the name and address of the owner
and the number of the permit plate.
Article Six. - Registration and Immunization of Dogs
SECTION 121. fmposition of Fee, - There shall be paid to the City Treasurer an
annual dog registration fee of the following:
(a)
(b)
For Impofted Dogs
For Ordinary Dogs
P 250.00
5.00
SECTION 122. Administrative Provisions,
(a) No person shall keep or own any dog over three (3) months old without first
securing a Registration Ceftificate from the City Veterinarian. The latter shall keep a register
of all licensed dogs, describing the same by the name, breed, color and sex, date of
immunization and shall enter therein the name and address of owner, amount paid, number
and date of official receipt.
(b) No dog can be registered without being immunized against rabies by the City
Veterinarian or any Veterinarian. Immunization fee shall be paid at cost.

Ord. No. 029L-L7
SECTION 123. fime of Payment - The registration fee shall be paid annually
based on the registry date. A Ten Pesos (P 10.00) penalty shall be imposed for every month
of delay.
Afticle Seven. - Fees on Impounding of Astray Animals
SECTION 124. fmposition of Fee, - There shall be imposed the following fees for
each day or fraction thereof on each head of astray animal found running or roaming at
large, or fettered in public places:
(a) Large Cattle
Succeeding day(s)
All other animals
Succeeding day(s)
Amount of Fee
P 1,000.00
100.00
s00.00
50.00
(b)
SECTION 125. Time of Payment - The impounding fee shall be paid to the City
Treasurer prior to the release of the impounded animal to its owner.
SECTION 126. Administrative Provisions,
(a) For purposes of this Afticle, the Barangay ffidds and/or Barangay Tanods of
the City are hereby authorized to apprehend and impound asffay animals in the City corral or
a place duly designated for such purpose. He shall also cause the posting of notice of the
impounded astray animal in the City Hall or Barangay Hall for seven (7) consecutive days,
stafting one day after the animal is impounded, within which the owner is required to claim
and establish ownership of the impounded animal. The City Mayor and City Treasurer shall
be informed of the impounding.
(b) Impounded animals excluding dogs and cats not claimed wlthin three (3) days
after the date of impounding shall be sold at public auction under the following procedures:
The City Treasurer shall post notice for seven (7) days in public areas including
the main door of the City Hall and the public markets. The animal shall be sold
to the highest bidder. Within seven (7) days after the auction sale, the City
Treasurer shall make a report of the proceedings in writing to the City Mayor.
The owner may stop the sale by paying, at any time before or during the
auction sale, the impounding fees due and the cost of the advertisement and
conduct of sale to the City Treasurer, otherwise, the sale shall proceed.
The proceeds of the sale shall be applied to satisff the cost of impounding,
adveftisement and conduct of sale. The residue over these costs shall accrue
to the General Fund of the city.
3.1 In case the impounded animal is not disposed of within seven (7) days
from the date of notice of public auction, the same shall be considered
sold to the City Government for the amount equivalent to the poundage
fees due.
1.
2.

SECTION 127. Penalty, - Owners whose animals are caught astray and incuning
damages to plants and properties shall pay the following fines:
(a)
(b)
(c)
A!! Cities and
Municipalities
First offense
Second offense
For the third offense and each
subsequent offense
P 100.00 per day
200.00 per day
300.00 per day
In addition to the fine, the owners shall pay the amount of damage incurred, if any, to
the propefi owner.
Afticle Eight. - Building and Other Construction Permit Fees (OCBO)
SECTION L28. Administrative Prouision, - No person, firm or corporation,
including government agencies, is allowed to erect, construct, alter, move, convert or
demolish any building or structure without first obtaining a Building Permit issued by the
City Engineer/Building Officia!.
SECTION 129. Assessment Fees,
a. Assessment of building permit fees shall be based on the following:
1) Character of occupancy or use of building/structure;
2) Cost of construction;
3) Floor area; and
4) Height
b. Regardless of the type of construction, the cost of construction of any
building/structure for the purpose of assessing the corresponding fees shal! be
based on the following table:
On Fixed Cost of Constructlon Per Sq. Meter:
LOCANON GROUP
A,B,C,D,E,G,H,I
P10,000
P6
F
,
,
J
PB
Buildings proposed for construction shall be identified according to their use
or the character of its occupancy and shall be classified as follows:
i. Group A- Residential Dwellings
Group A Occupancies shall include:
Diuision -I- Residential building/structure for exclusive use of single family
occupants including school or company staff housing; single (nuclear) family
dwellings; churches or similar places of worship; church rectories; community
facilities and social centers; parks, playgrounds, pocket parks, parkways,
Ord. No. 029L-L7

Ord. No. 0291-L7
promenades and play lots; clubhouses and recreational uses such as golf courses,
tennis courts, basketball courts, swimming pools and similar uses operated by the
government or private individuals as membership organizations for the benefit of
their members, families, and guests and not operated primarily for gain.
Division 2- Residential building for the exclusive use of non-leasing
occupants not exceeding 10 persons including single-attached or duplex or
townhouses, each privately-owned; school dormitories (on campus); convents and
monasteries; military or police barracks/dormitories; pre-schools, elementary and
high schools, provided that they do not exceed 16 classrooms; outpatient clinics,
family planning clinics, lying-in clinics, diagnostics clinics, medical and clinical
laboratories; branch library and museums; steamldry cleaning outlets; party needs
and accessories (leasing of tables and chairs, etc.).
ri. Group B - Residentials, Hotels and AparfrnenB
Group B Occupancies shall be multiple dwelling units including boarding or
lodging houses, hotels, apaftment buildings, row houses, convents, monasteries
and other similar building which accommodates more than 10 persons.
iii. Group C - Education and Recreation
Group C Occupancies shall be buildings used for school or day-care
purposes, involving assemblage for instruction, education, or recreation, and not
classified in Group I or in Division 1 and 2 or Group H Occupancies.
tu Group D- Institutional
Group D Occupancies shall include:
Division./ - Mental hospitals, mental sanitaria, jails, prisons, reformatories,
and buildings where personal libefties of inmates are similarly restrained.
Diuision 2 - Nurseries for full-time care of children under kindergarten age,
hospitals, sanitaria, nursing homes with non-ambulatory patients, and similar
buildings each accommodating more than five persons.
Division 3 - Nursing homes for ambulatory patients, homes for children of
kindergarten age or over, each accommodating more than five persons: Provided,
that Group D Occupancies shall not include buildings used only for private or family
group dwelling purposes.
r. Group E - Business and Mercantile
Group E Occupancies shall include:
Division /- Gasoline filling and seruice stations, storage garages and boat
storage structures where no work is done except exchange of parts and
maintenance requiring no open flame, welding, or the use of highly flammable
liquids.

Ord. No. 029L-L7
Division 2- Wholesale and retail stores, office buildings, drinking and dining
establishments having an occupant load of less than one hundred persons, printing
plants, police and fire stations, factories and workshops using not highly flammable
or combustible materials and paint stores without bulk handlings.
Division 3 Aircraft hangars and open parking garages where no repair work
is done except exchange of pafis and maintenance requiring no open flame,
welding or the use of highly flammable liquids.
r.GroupF-Industrial
Group F Occupancies shall include: ice plants, power plants, pumping plants,
cold storage, and creameries, factories and workshops using incombustible and
non-explosive materials, and storage and sales rooms for incombustible and nonexplosive materials.
vii. Group G - Storage and Hazardous
Groups G Occupancies shal! include:
Division 1- Storage and handling of hazardous and highly flammable
material.
Division 2- Storage and handling of flammable materials, dry cleaning plants
using flammable liquids; paint stores with bulk handling, paint shops and spray
painting rooms.
Diuision 3- Wood working establishments, planning mills and box factories,
shops, factories where loose combustible fibers or dust are manufactured,
processed or generated; warehouses where highly combustible materials is stored.
Division 4- Repair garages.
Diuision 5- Aircraft repair hangars
viii. Group H - As*mbly Other Than Group I
Group H Occupancies shall include:
Division /- Any assembly building with a stage and an occupant load of less
than 1000 in the building.
Division 2- Any assembly building without stage and having an occupant load
of 300 or more in the building.
Division 3 Any assembly building without a stage and having an occupant
load of less than 300 in the building.
Division 4- Stadia, reviewing stands, amusement park structures not included
within Group I or in Division t, 2, and 3 of this Group.
ix. Group I - Assembly Occupant Load 1000 or more

Ord. No. 029L-L7
Group I Occupancies shall be any assembly building with a stage and an
occupant load of 1000 or more in the building.
x Group J-Accessory
Group J Occupancies shall include:
Division /- Agricultural structures.
Division 2- Private garages, carpofts, fences over 1.80 meters high, tanks,
swimming pools and towers.
Diuision 3- Stages, platforms, pelota, tennis, badminton or basketball coufts,
tombs, mausoleums, niches, aviaries, aquariums, zoo structures, banks and record
vaults. Other subgroupings or divisions within Groups A to J may be determined by
the Secretary. Any other occupancy not mentioned specifically in this SECTION, or
about which there is any question, shall be included in the Group which it most
nearly resembles based on the existing or proposed life and fire hazard.
SECTION 130. Filing Fee (Non-Refundable):
Rate'-
Per permit or ceftificate of occupancy applicationP 150.00
SECTION 131. CERTIFICATIONS:
a. Certified true copy of building permit......
b. Certified true copy of Certificate of Use/Occupancy..........
c. Issuance of Ceftificate of Damage
d. Certified true copy of Certjficate of Damage...
e. Ceftified true copy of Electrical Certificate.............
f. Issuance of Certificate of Gas Meter Installation...............
g. Ceftified true copy of Certificate of Operation
a. Other Certifications...............
NOTE: The specifications of the Gas Meter shall be:
Manufacturer...................
Serial Number..
Gas Type.
Meter Classification/Model
Maximum Allowable Operating Pressure - psi (kPa)....
Hub Size - mm (inch)..........
Capacity - m3/hr. (trVhr.)...
SECTION 132. Establishment of Line and Grade,
50.00
50.00
s0.00
50.00
50.00
50.00
50.00
50.00
a) All sides fronting or abutting streets, rivers and creeks:

Ord. No. 029L-L7
Linear Meter
Rates'tree
1. First 10 meters
2, Every meter or fraction
thereof in excess of 10 meters
2.40
b) Accessory Fees
a. Establishment of Line and Grade, all sides fronting
or abutting streets, esteros, rivers and creeks, fiH 10.00 meters...... 24.00
c) Ground Preparation and Excavation Fee
i. Every meter or fraction thereof in excess of 10.00 meters...........
2.40
ii. While the application for Building Permit is still being processed, the Building
Official may issue Ground Preparation and Excavation Permit (GP&EP) for
foundation, subject to the verification, inspection and review by the Line and
Grade SECTION of the Inspection and Enforcement Division to determine
compliance to line and grade, setbacks, yards/easements and parking
requirements.
P 24.00
200.00
3.00
50.00
(a) Inspection and Verification Fee.
(b) Per cu. meters of excavation ....
(c) Issuance of GP & EP, valid only for thirty (30) days or
superseded upon issuance of Building Permit
SECTION 133. *hedule of Building Permit Fees,
regardless of floor area of original construction..............
iii. Above 20.00 sq. meters to 50.00 sq. meters
iv. Above 50.00 sq. meters to 100.00 sq. meters
v. Above 100.00 sq. m to 150 sq. meters
(a) The Building Permit Fee includes the excavation fee for foundation.
However, while the application is still being processed, the Building Official
may authorize all excavations for foundation and basement, for which the
following fees shall be charged:
Volume
(a.1) Per cu. meter of excavation for
Rates '
foundation with basement..
4.00
(a.2) Excavation other than foundation
or basement, per cu. meter
3.00
(b) Construction/addition/renovation/alteration
under Division A-1
of buildings/structures
Area
Rates tree,per sq, m.
i. Original complete construction up to 20.00 sq.meters
P 2.00
ii. Additional/renovation/alteration up to 20.00 sq. meters
2.40
3.40
4.80
6.00
7.20
vi. Above 150.00 sq. meters

Ord. No.029l-L7
(c) Construction/addition/renovation/alteration of buildings under
Divisions B-LIC-LIE-L, 2, 3lF-LlG-L, 2, 3, 4, slH-L, 2, 3, 4lI4 and J-1,
2,3:
Area
Rates ree per sq. m.
Up to 5,000.......
Above 5,000 to 6,000
Above 6,000 to 7,000
Above 7,000 to 8,000
Above 8,000 to 9,000
Above 9,000 to 10,000
Above 1,000 to 1,500...
Above 15,000 to 20,000.
Above 20,000 to 30,000.
Above 30,000.....
i
ii
iii
iv
v
vi
vii
viii
ix
x
23.00
22.04
20.50
19.50
18.00
17.00
15.00
15.00
14.00
12.00
12.00
11.00
10.20
9.60
9.00
8.40
7.20
6.60
6.00
s.00
NOTE: Computation of the building fee for item 3.c. is cumulative. The total area is
split up into sub-areas corresponding to the area bracket indicated in the Table
above. Each sub-area and the fee corresponding to its area bracket are multiplied
together. The building fee is the sum of the individual products as shown in the
following example:
(d) Construction/addition/renovation/alteration of buildings under Divisions C-ZlD-t,
2,3
Area
i. Up to 5,000
Ratesl Fee per sq. m.
ii. Above 5,000 to 6,000.......
Above 6,000 to 7,000
Above 7,000 to 8,000
Above 8,000 to 9,000
Above 9,000 to 10,000.......
Above 10,000 to 15,000
Above 15,000 to 20,000.
Above 20,000 to 30,000
Above 30,000.....
iii
iv
V
vi
vii
viii
ix
x
(e) Construction/addition/renovation/alteration of buildings/structures under Ancillary:
1. Garages, carports, balconies, terraces, lanais and the like: 50o/o of
the rate of the principal building, of which they are accessories;
2. All parts of buildings which are open on two (2) or more sides,
such as balconies, terraces, lanais and the like, shal! be charged
50o/o of the rate of the principal building of which they are a part;
3. Aviaries, aquariums, zoo structures and the like: same rateg as for
SECTION 10.d. above.
A!|

_
Ord. No. 029L-L7
(D Footings or foundations of buildings/structures. Per sq. m. or fraction thereof
of footing or foundation encroachment
Encroachment of footings or foundations of
buildings/structures to public areas as permitted,
per sq. meter or fraction thereof of footing
or foundation encroachment
P 250.00
(g) Buildings with a height of more than 8.00 meters shall be charged an
additional fee of twenty-five centavos (P 0.25) per cu. meter above 8.00 meters.
The height shall be measured from the ground level up to the bottom of the roof
slab or the top of girts, whichever applies.
(h) Alteration/renovation/improvement on veftical
dimensions of buildings/structures in square meter,
such as facades, exterior and interior walls, shall be
assessed in accordance with the following rate,
For all Groups
P 5.00
(i)
Alteration/renovation/improvement on
horizontal d imensions of bu i ld i ngs/structu res,
such as floorings, ceilings and roofing shall
be assessed in accordance with the
following rate, For all Groups
P 5.00
0) Repairs on buildings/structures in all Groups costing more than Five
Thousand Pesos (P 5,000.00) shall be charged one percent (1olo) of the detailed
repair cost (itemized original materials to be replaced with same or new substitute
and Iabor)
SECTION L34, Ancillary Structure,
Volume
a. Bank and Records Vaults with interior volume
Rates'-
up to 20.00 cu. meters.
P 20.00
In excess of 20.00 cu. meters
8.00
b. Swimming Pools, per cu. meter or fraction thereof:
i. GROUP A Residential..........
P 3.00
ii. Commercial/Industrial GROUPS B, E, F, G..........
36.00
iii. SociaURecreational/Institutional GROUPS C, D, H, I............... 24.00
iv. Swimming pools improvised from local indigenous materials such as rocks,
stones and/or small boulders and with plain cement flooring shall be
charged 50o/o of the above rates.
v. Swimming pool shower rooms/locker rooms:
(a) Per unit or fraction thereof
(b) Residential GROUP A.
P 60.00
6.00
18.00
12.00

(d) Construction/erection of towers: Including Radio and W towers, water tank
suppofting structures and the like:
Use or Character of
Occupancy
Self-Supporting Trilon(Guyed)
(c) Construction of firewalls separate from the building:
1. Per sq. m. or fraction thereof
2. Provided, that the minimum fee shall be
i. Single detached dwelling units
500.00
ii. Commercial/Industrial
(Groups B, E, F, G) up to
10.00 meters in height
2,400.00
(a) Every meter or fraction thereof
in excess of 10.00 meters
120.00
i i i. Ed ucationa l/Recreationa l//Institutional
(Groups C, D, H, I) up to
10.00 meters in height
1,800.00
(a) Every meter or fraction thereof
in excess of 10.00 meters
120.00
i. Smokestacks, up to 10.00 meters in
height, measured from the base.........
a. Every meter or fraction thereof in
excess of 10.00 meters.....
ii. Chimney up to 10.00 meters in
heigh! measured from the base
a. Every meter or fraction thereof in excess
of 10.00 meters.....
(g) Construction of Commercial/Industrial Fixed Ovens,
per sq. meters or fraction thereof of interior floor areas .....
(h) Construction of Industrial Kiln/Furnace, per cu. meter or
fraction thereof of volume
(i)
Construction of reinforced concrete or steel tanks or
above ground GROUPS A and B, uP to 2.00 cu. meters
Ord. No.029t-17
P 3.00
48.00
240.00
12.00
48.00
2.00
48.00
12.00
(e) Storage Silos, up to 10.00 meters in height..
2,400.00
i. Every meter or fraction thereof
in excess of 10.00 meters.....
150.00
ii. Silos with platforms or floors shall be charged an additional fee in accordance
with this SECTION.
(D Construction of Smokestacks and Chimneys for Commercial/Industrial Use
Groups B, E, F and G:
Rates'-
12.00
150.00
240.00
12.00
120.00
12.00

(a) Every cu. meter or fraction thereof in
excess of 10.00 cu. meters
24.00
0)
Construction of reinforced concrete or steel tanks for Commerciaflndustrial
use:
i. Every cu. m or fraction thereof in excess
of 2.00 cu. meters........
ii. For all other than Groups A and B
up to 10.00 cu. meters...............
a. Above ground, up to 10.00 cu. meters
Every cu. m or fraction thereof
in excess of 10.00 cu. meters.
Underground, up to 20.00 cu. meters.
Every cu. meter or fraction thereof
in excess of 20.00 cu.meters
(k) Construction of Water and Waste Water Treatnent
Tanks. (Including Cisterns, Sedimentation and Chemical
Treatment Tanks) per cu. meter of volume
Ord. No. 029t-L7
12.00
480.00
480.00
24.00
540.00
24.00
7.00
480.00
(l)
Construction of steel tanks for commercial/industrial use:
Rates -
i Above ground, up to 10.00 cu. meters....
Every cu. m or fraction thereof
in excess of 10.00 cu. meters......................
24.00
540.00
ii. Underground, up to 20.00 cu. meters
Every cu. meter or fraction thereof
in excess of 20.00 cu.meters
24.00
(m) Pull-outs and Reinstallation of Commercial/Industrial Steel Tanks:
i. Underground, per cu. meter or
fraction thereof of excavation............
3.00
ii. Saddle or trestle mounted horizontal tanks,
per cu. meter or fraction thereof of volume of tank.......... 3.00
ri7. Reinstallation of veftical storage tanks shall be the same as new
construction fees in accordance with SECTION B.k. above.
(n) Booths, Kiosks, Platforms, Stages and the like, per sq. meter or fraction
thereof of floor area:
i. Construction of permanent type.......
10.00
ii. Construction of temporary type........
s.00
iii. Inspection of knock-down temporary type,
per unit
24.00
(o) Construction of buildings and other accessory structures within cemeteries
and memorial parks:
1. Tombs, per sq. meter of covered ground
areas
s.00

Ord. No. 029L-L7
2. Semi-enclosed mausoleums whether
canopied or not per sq. meter of built-up area.
3. Totally enclosed mausoleums, per sq.
meter of floor area
4. Columbarium, per sq. meter....
SECTION 135. Sanitary / Plumbing Permit Fees, - Plumbing Permit Fees shall
be collected based on the fullowing rates (Per unit):
(a) Installation Fees, one (1) *UNIT" composed of one (1) water closet, two (2)
floor drains, one (1) Iavatory, one (1) sink with ordinary trap, three (3) faucets
and one (1) shower head. A paftial paft thereof shall be charged as that of the
cost of a whole *UNIT".
(b) For every fixture in excess of a unit under (a) above:
Rates'-
s.00
12.00
18.00
7.00
3.00
3.00
7.00
2.00
2.00
7.00
4.00
7.00
7.00
7.00
4.00
4.00
4.00
2.00
4.00
4.00
4.00
2.00
2.00
8.00
10.00
i. Each water closet.....
ii. Each floor drain........
iii. Each sink.
vi. Each shower head.......
vii. Each slop sink.
viii. Each urinal.......
ix. Each bath tub.....
x. Each grease trap
xi. Each garage trap.......
xii. Each bidet
xiii. Each dental cuspidor...............
xiv. Each gas-fired water heater.......
xv. Each drinking fountain.........,....
srui. Each bar or soda fountain sink..........
s<vii. Each laundry sink..................
xuiii. Each laboratory sink.............
ix. Each fixed-type sterilizer
x.
Each water meter....
i. L2to 25 mm A..............
ri. Above 25 mm A........-.....
(c) Construction of septic tank, applicable in all Groups
r. Up to 5.00 cu. meters of digestion chamber..........
n. Every cu. meter or fraction thereof
In excess of 5.00 cu. meters
24.00
7.00
SECTION 136. Fencing Permit Fees, fees for Fencing Permit shall be based on
the following rates (Length):
Rates/Fee
(a) Made of masonry, metal, concrete up to
1.80 meters in height, per lineal meter or
fraction
3.00

a. Use of Streets and Sidewalks, Enclosures and
Occupanry of Sidewalks up to 20.00 sq. meters, per
calendar month
240.00
i. Every sq. meter or fraction thereof in excess of
20.00 sq. meters ..
12.00
SECTION 138. Paved or Cemented Areas, - Paved Areas intended for
Commercial/Industrial/Socia/lnstitutional use, such as Parking Area, Gasoline Stations
Premises, Skating Rink, Pelota Coutts, and the like:
For every sq. m. or fraction thereof - P 1.10
a. Construction of Pavements, up to 20.00sq.meters........
b. In excess of 20 sq. meters or fraction thereof of
paved areas intended for commercial
/industriafinstitutional use, such as parking and
sidewalk areas, gasoline station premises, skating
rinks, pelota courts, tennis and basketball coufts
24.00
and the like ..........
3.00
SECTION 139. Use of StreeB and Sidewall<s as Permitted;
Rates'-
1. Use of Streets and Sidewalks, Enclosures
and Occupancy of Sidewalks up to 20.00
sq. meters, per calendar month
r. Ever! sq. meter or fraction thereof
in excess of 20.00 sq. meters
240.00
12.00
2. Erection of Scaffoldings Occupying Public Areas, per calendar month.
(b) In excess of 1.80 meters in height,
per lineal meter or fraction thereof ......
(c) Made of indigenous materials, barbed,
chicken or hog wires, per linear meter.......
(d) Fences in excess of 1.80 meters in height made
of materials other than those of (a) above,
per linear meter or fraction thereof....
SECTION 137. Construction of Sidewallcs (sq, m,):
a.Up to 10.00 meters in length
ii.Every lineal meter or fraction thereof
in excess of 10.00 meters
Ord. No. 029L-L7
4.00
2.40
2.20
150.00
12.00
Secti o n L4O. De m o I i ti o n / M o vi n g o f B u i I d i n g s/ Stru ctu res Fees :
Demolition/Moving of Buildings/Structures Fees, per sq. meter of area or
dimensions involved are as follows:

a. Buildings in all Groups
per sq. meter floor area.
b. Building Systems/Frames or poftion
thereof per vertical or horizontal
dimensions, including Fences
c. Structures of up to 10.00 meters in height..
(a) Every meter or poftion thereof
in excess of 10.00 meters
d. Appendage of up to 3.00 cu. meter/unit...................
(a) Every cu. meter or poftion thereof
in excess of 3.00 cu. meters....
e. Moving Fee, per sq. meter of area of building/
structure to be moved
SECTION 141. Certificate of Use or Occupancy, - Schedule:
Ord. No. 029L-L7
3.00
4.00
800.00
s0.00
50.00
50.00
3.00
Rates'-
100.00
200.00
400.00
800.00
800.00
200.00
a. Division A-1 and A-2 Buildings:
r. Costing up to P150,000.00
ri.Costing more than P150,000.00
up to P400,000.00 .......
b. Divisions B-L|E-L, 2, 3lF-LlG-L, 2, 3, 4, slH-L, 2, 3, 4land I-1 Buildings:
r. Costing up to P150,000.00............
/. Costing more than P150,000.00
up to P400,000.00 .......
iii. Cos+ting more than P400,000.00
up to P850,000.00
nz. Costing more than P850,000.00
up to P1,200,000.00 ........
v. Every million or poftion thereof in excess
of P1,200,000.00.....
c. Divisions C-L, zlD-L, 2, 3 Buildings:
i. Costing up to P150,000.00
ri. Costing more than P150,000.00
up to P400,000.00
rz Costing more than P400,000.00 up to
P850,000.00............
irz. Costing more than P850,000.00
400.00
800.00
1,000.00
1,000.00
150.00
250.00
600.00
up to P1,200,000.00
900.00
rii. Costing more than P400,000.00 up
to P850,000.00.......
irz. Costing more than P850,000.00 up to
P1,200,000.00.........
v.Every million or poftion thereof in excess
of P1,200,000.00.....

/ii: With floor area above 500.00 sq. meters
up to 1,000.00 sq. meters
360.00
irz. With floor area above 1,000.00 sq. meters
up to 5,000.00 sq. meters
480.00
rz. With floor area above 5,000.00 sq. meters
up to 10,000.00 sq. meters..
1,200.00
2,400.00
rzr. With floor area above 10,000.00 sq. meters
e. Garages, carports, balconies, terraces, lanais and the like: 50o/o of the rate of the
principal building, of which they are accessories.
f. Aviaries, aquariums, zoo structures and the like: same rates as for SECTION 10 d
above.
g. Towers such as for Radio and W transmissions, cell site, sign (ground or roof
type) and water tank suppofting structures and the like in any location shall be
imposed fees as follows:
v. Every million or portion thereof in excess
of P1, 200,000.00...................
d. Division J-I Buildings/structures:
r. With floor area up to 20.00 sq. meters
/. With floor area above 20.00 sq.
meters up to 500.00 sq. meters
(a) First 10.00 meters of height from the ground............
(b) Every meter or fraction thereof in
excess of 10.00 meters.
SECTION 142. Change in Use/Occupancy,
Change in Use/Occupancy, per sq. meter
or fraction thereof of area affected
Ord. No.029l-t7
900.00
50.00
240.00
800.00
50.00
5.00
SECTION 143. Annual Building fnspection Fees, - Annual building inspection
fees shall be collected at the following rates:
Rates -
(a) Divisions A-1 and A-2:
i. Single detached dwelling units and duplexes
are not subject to annual inspections.
ii. If the owner request inspections, the fee for
each of the seruices enumerated below is ............
120.00
a.) Land Use Conformity
b.) Architectural Presentability
c.) Structural Stability
d.) Sanitary and Health Requirements
e.) Fire Resistive Requirements

(b) Divisions B-1/D-1, 2,31E-L,2,3|F-L|G-L,2,3, 4,51 H-t,2,3, 4l
and I-1, Commercial, Industrial Institutional buildings and
appendages shall be assessed area as follows:
Appendage of up 3.00 cu. meters/unit.
Floor area to 100.00 sq. meters...
Above 100.00 sq. meters up to
200.00 sq. meters
Above 200.00 sq. meters up to
350.00 sq. meters.
Above three hundred 350.00 sq. meters
Up to 500.00 sq. meters..
vi. Above 500.00 sq.'meters up to
750 sq. meters.....
Above 750.00 sq. meters
Up to 1,000.00 sq. meters.
i.
ii.
iii.
iv.
V.
Ord. No. 029I-I7
150.00
120.00
240.00
580.00
720.00
960.00
1,200.00
1,200.00
1,200.00
720.00
520.00
720.00
25.00
20.00
15.00
10.00
5.00
25.00
20.00
vii.
viii
(c)
Divisions C-L, 2, Amusement Houses, Gymnasia and the like:
Every 1,000.00 sq. meters or
its poftion in excess of
1,000.00 sq. meters....
r. First class cinematographs or theaters
ii. Second class cinematographs or theaters
iii. Third class cinematographs or theaters...
iv. Grandstands/Bleachers, Gymnasia and the !ike.........
ii.
iii.
(d) Annual plumbing inspection fees,
each plumbing unit
60.00
(e) Electrica! Inspection Fees:
i. A one-time electrical inspection fee equivalent to 10olo of Total
Electrical Permit Fees shall be charged to cover all inspection trips
during construction.
ri. Annual Inspection Fees are the same as in Paragraph (a) of the same
SECTION.
(0
Annual Mechanical Inspection Fees:
r. Refrigeration and Ice Plant, per ton:
(a) Up to 100 tons capacity
(b) Above 100 tons up to 150 tons
(c) Above 150 tons up to 300 tons
(d) Above 300 tons up to 500 tons..
(e) Every ton or fraction thereof above 500 tons.......
Air Conditioning Systems:
Window type air conditioners, per unit .........
Packaged or centralized air conditioning systems:
(a) First 100 tons, per ton
40.00
(b) Above 100 tons, up to 150 tons per ton

(c) Every ton or fraction thereof above 500 tons ........
8.00
iv, Mechanical Ventilation, per unit, per kW:
(a) Up to 1 kW
10.00
(b) Above 1 kW to 7.5 kW ....
50.00
Ord. No. 029L-L7
20.00
120.00
50.00
10.00
25.00
2.00
500.00
400.00
s0.00
400.00
s00.00
50.00
400.00
550.00
600.00
650.00
800.00
900.00
4.00
120.00
55.00
90.00
2.00
15.00
10.00
2.40
10.00
2.00
100.00
(c) Every kW above 7.5 kW
v. Escalators and Moving Walks; Funiculars and the like
(a) Escalator and Moving Walks, per unit.
(b) Funiculars, per kW or fraction thereof
(c) Per lineal meter or fraction thereof of travel...
(d) Cable Car, per l(A/ or fraction thereof
(e) Per lineal meter of travel...
vi. Elevatorc, per unit:
(a) Passenger elevators.
(b) Freight elevators...............
(c) Motor driven dumbwaiters..
(d) Construction elevators for materials............
(e) Car elevators
(f) Every landing above first five (5) Iandings
for all the above elevators.
vii. Boilers, per unit
(b) 7.5 kW up to 22 kW
(c) 22 kW up to 37 kW
(d) 37 kW up to 52 kW
(e) 52 kW up to 67 kW
(D 67 kW up to74 kW...........
(g) Every kW or fraction thereof
above 74 kW
viii. Pressurized Water Heaters, per unit....
ix. Water, Sump and Sewage pumps for buildings/
structures for commerciall industrial purposes, per kW:
(a) Up to 5 kW...
(b) Above 5 kW to 10 kW...........
(c) Every kW or fraction thereof
above 10 kW......
x. Diesel/Gasoline Internal Combustion Engine,
Gas Turbine/Engine, Hydro, Nuclear or Solar
Generating Units and the like, per kW:
(a) Per kW, up to 50 kW...........
(b) Above 50 kW up to 100 kW.,
(c) Every kW or fraction thereof
above 100 kW
xi. Compressed air, vacuum, commercial/
institutional/industrial gases, per outlet
xii. Power piping for gas/steam/etc., per lineal meter or
fraction thereof or per cu. meter or fraction
thereof, whichever is higher...
xiii. O,ther Internal Combustion Engines, including
Cranes, Forklifts, Loaders, Mixers, Compressorc and the like:
(a) Per unit, up to 10 kW
(b) Every kW above 10 kW......
3.00

Ord. No. 029t-t7
xiv. Other machineries and/or equipment for commercia/
industrial/institutional use not elsewhere specified, per unit:
(c) Above 1 kW up to 3 kW........
(d) Above 3 kW up to 5 kW.......
(e) Above 5 kW up to 10 kW......
(fl Every kW above 10 kW
or fraction thereof....
8.00
23.00
39.00
55.00
80.00
4.00
2.40
30.00
xv. Pressure Vessels, per cu. Meter
or fraction thereof....
40.00
xui Pneumatic tubes, Conveyors, Monorails for
materials handling, per lineal meter
or fraction thereof....
xvii. Weighing Scale Structure, per ton or fraction thereof.
xryiii. Testi n g/Ca I i bration of pressu re ga u ge,
per unit
24.00
(a) Each Gas Meter, tested, proved and
sealed, per gas meter .
30.00
30.00
a.
Annual electronics inspection fees shall be the same as the fees in Afticle
Nine of this Schedule.
b.
An annual inspection for the business establishments/structures situated
within the shoreline shall be conducted to ensure the structural stability of the
building and the safety and security of the public.
SECTION 144. Fines, -The following fines shall be collected for non-compliance with
work stoppage for construction without permit:
Determination of Amount of Fines:
a. In the determination of the amount of fines to be imposed, violations shall be
classified as follows:
i. Light Violations
ii. Failure to post Certificate of Occupancy/Use/Operation.
iii. Failure to post Building Permit construction information sign.
iv. Failure to provide or install appropriate safety measures for the protection of
workers, inspectors, visitors, immediate neighbors and pedestrians.
iv. Less Grave Violations
(a) Non-compliance with the work stoppage order for the
alteration/addition/conversion/repair without permit.
(b) Use or occupancy of building/structure without appropriate Ceftificate of
Occu pancy/Use/Operation.
v. Grave Violations
(a) Unauthorized change, modification or alteration during construction in the
duly submitted plans and specifications on which the building permit is
based.
(a) Up to vz kw...........
(b) Above VzkW up to 1 kW........
xix. Every mechanical ride inspection, etc., used
in amusement centers of fairs, such
as ferris wheel, and the like, per unit..........

Ord. No.029L-L7
(b) Unauthorized change in type of construction from more fire-resistive to
less fire resistive.
(c) Non-compliance with order to abate or demolish.
(d) Non-compliance with work stoppage order for construction/demolition
without permit.
(e) Change in the existing use or occupancy without Ceftificate of Change of
Occu pa ncylUse/Operation.
(f) Excavations left open without any work being done in the site for more
than one hundred twenty (120) days.
b. Amount of Fines
The following amount of fines for violations of the Code and its IRR is hereby
prescribed: LightViolations- P5,000.00
Less Grave Violations -
P 8,000.00
GraveViolations- P 10,000.00
SECTION 145. fmposition of Fines, - The minimum fines shall be imposed
for failure to comply with the terms of the first notice. The medium fines shall be imposed
for failure to comply with the terms of the second notice. The maximum fines shall be
imposed for failure to comply with the terms of the third and final notice.
a. The Secretary or his duly authorized represpntative may prescribe and impose
fines not exceeding Ten Thousand Pesos (P10, 000.00) in the following cases,
subject to the terms and procedures as hereunder provided:
i. Erecting, constructing, altering, repairing, moving, convefting, installing or
demolishing a private or public building/structure if without
building/demolition permit.
ii. Making any alteration, addition, conversion or repair in any
building/structure/ appuftenances thereto constructed or installed before the
adoption of the Code, whether public or private, without a permit.
iii. Unauthorized change, modification or alteration during the construction in
the duly submitted plans and specifications on which the building permit is
based.
iv. Non-compliance with the work stoppage order or notice and/or orders to
effect necessary correction in plans and specifications found defective.
v. Non-compliance with order to demolish building/structure declared to be
nuisance, ruinous or dangerous.
vi. Use or occupancy of a building/structure without Ceftificate of
Occupancy/Use even if constructed under a valid building permit.
vii. Change in the existing use or occupancy classification of a building/structure
or portion thereof without the corresponding Certificate of Change of Use.
viii. Failure to post or display the ceftificate of occupancy/use/operation in a
conspicuous place on the premises of the building/structure/appurtenances.
ix. Change in the type of construction of any building/structure without an
amendatory permit.
b. In addition to the imposed penalty, the owner shall correc{remove his violations
of the provisions of the Code.

Ord. No. 029t-L7
SECTION 146. Surcharge / Penalty, - Without prejudice to the provisions of the
preceding Sections, the Building Official is hereby also authorized to impose a penalty or
surcharge in the following cases in such amount and in the manner as hereunder fixed
and determined:
For constructing, installing, repairing, altering or causing any change in the
occupancy/use of any building/structure or part thereof or appurtenances thereto without
any permit, there shall be imposed a surcharge of 100o/o of the building fees; Provided,
that when the work in the building/structure is started pending issuance of the Building
Permit by the Building Official, the amount of the surcharge shall be according to the
following:
Excavation for foundation.......... L}o/o of the building permit fees
Construction of foundation
(including pile driving and
laying of reinforcing bars)..
.. 25o/o of the building permit fees
Construction of su perstructu re
up to 2.00 meters
above established grade.... .... 50o/o of the building permit fees
Construction of superstructu re
Above 2.00 meters...................
100o/o of the building permit fees
For failure to pay the annual inspection fee within thirty (30) days from the
prescribed date, a surcharge of 25o/o of the inspection fee shall be imposed.
SECTION L47. Exemptions. - No fees shall be charged on the following
applications:
(a) Construction, addition, renovation, alteration of public buildings, undertaken by
the government.
(b) Construction, addition, renovation, alteration of government-owned tenement
houses and other housing units while the title of the lot is still in the name of
the government.
(c) Construction of building or structures damaged or destroyed by typhoons, fires,
eafthquakes or other calamities provided that reconstruction shall not exceed
twenty percent (20o/o) of the original construction cost filed with the City
Engineer/Building Official together with the certificate of damage not later than
sixty (60) days after the occurrence of such calamity.
(d) Construction of buildings, or structures by civic organizations, charitable
institutions to be donated to the government for public use.
(e) Construction/addition/renovation/alteration/repair of buildings/ structures and/or
electrical equipment/installations owned by electric cooperatives.
(D Construction/addition/renovation/alteration of traditional indigenous family
dwelling units.
(g) Public buildings and traditional indigenous family dwellings shall be exempt from
payment of building permit fees.
As used in the National Building Code, the term "traditional indigenous family
dwelling" means a dwelling intended for the use and occupancy by the family of the owner
only and constructed of native materials such as bamboo, nipa, logs, or lumber, the total
cost of which does not exceed Fifteen Thousand Pesos (P15,000.00).

|
Ord. No. 029L-t7
SECTION 148. Penal Provision. - It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation, to erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, move, improve, remove, convert,
demolish, equip, use, occupy, or maintain any building or structure or cause the same to
be done contrary to or in violation of any provision of the Code.
Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any of the provisions of the Code
and/or commit any act hereby declared to be unlawful shall upon conviction, be punished
by a fine of not more than Twenty Thousand Pesos (P20,000.00) or by imprisonment of
not more than two (2) years or by both such fine and imprisonment; Provided, that in the
case of a corporation firm, paftnership or association, the penalty shall be imposed upon
its officials responsible for such violation and in case the guilty party is an alien, he shall
immediately be depofted after payment of the fine and/or service of his sentence.
Afticle Nine. - Electrical and Electronics Installation Permit
and Inspection Fees
SECTION 149. fmposition of Fee, - Every person or entity who shall install or
alter, or cause to be installed or altered any exterior or interior electrical lighting, power,
telephone, or telegraph, or any electrical system or line; or install or cause to be installed
any electrica! apparatus or machine shall pay for every installation the following fees:
a. The following schedule shall be used for computing electrical fees in residential,
institutional, commercial and industrial structures:
1. Total Connected Load (kVA)
Fee
i.
ii.
iii.
iv.
V.
vi.
5 kVA or |ess......
.. P 200.00
Over 5 kVA to 50 kVA.....
200.00 + P 20.00/kVA
Over 50 kVA to 300 kVA...
1,100.00 + 10.00/kVA
Over 300 kVa to 1,500 kVA.......... 3,600.00 + 5.00/kVA
Over 1,500 kVA to 6,000 kVA................ 9,600.00 + 2.50/kVA
Over 6,000 kVA.......
20,850.00 + 1.25lkVA
NOTE: Total Connected Load as shown in the load schedule.
2. Total Transformer/U n interru pted Power Su pply (U PS)/Generator Capacity
(kvA)
Fee
r. 5 kVA or less.
P 40.00
P40.00+P4.00/kVA
ii. Over 5 kVA to 50 kVA......
iii. Over 50 kVA to 300 kVA................
iv. Over 300 kVa to 1,500 kVA...........
r. Over 1,500 kVA to 6,000 kVA........
220.00 + 2.00/kVA
....... 720.00 + 1.00/kVA
....... L,920.00 + 0.50/kVA
vi. Aver 6,000 kVA.......
4,170.00 + 0.25lkVA

Ord. No. 0291-L7
NOTE:Total Transformer/UPS/Generator Capacity shall include all
transformer, UPS and generators which are owned/installed by the owner/applicant
as shown in the electrical plans and specifications.
3. Pole/Attachment Location Plan Permit
r. Power Supply Pole Location.
.... P 30.00/pole
P 30.00/attachment
ri. Guying Attachment.........
This applies to designs/installations within the premises.
4. Miscellaneous Fees: Electric Meter for union
reconnection or relocation and issuance of Wiring Permit:
separation, alteration,
Use or Character of Occupancy
Electric Meter
Wiring Permit Issuance
P15.00
36.00
12.00
Residential
Commercial/Ind ustrial
Institutional
P15.00
60.00
30.00
5. Formula for Computation of Fees
The Total Electrical Fees shall be the sum of SECTION L49 of this Code
Forfeiture of Fees
If the electrical work or installation is found not in conformity with the
minimum safety requirements of the Philippine Electrical Codes and the
Electrical Engineering Law (RA 7920), and the Owner fails to perform
corrective actions within the reasonable time provided by the Building Official,
the latter and/or their duly authorized representative shall fofthwith cancel
the permit and the fees thereon shall be forfeited.
b. The following schedule shall be used for computing Electronics fees in residential,
institutional, commercial and industrial structures:
1. Central Office switching equipment, remote switching units, concentrators, PABX/PBX's,
cordless/wireless telephone and communication systems, intercommunication system and
other types of switching/routing/distribution equipment used for voice, data image text,
facsimile, internet seruice, cellular, paging and other types/forms of wired or wireless
communications...... ...P2.40 per poft.
2. Broadcast station for radio and TV for both commercial and training purposes, CATV
headed, transmitting/receivinglrelay radio and broadcasting communications stations,
communications centers, switching centers, control centers, operation and/or maintenance
centers, call centers, cellsites, equipment silos/shelters and other similar
locations/structures used for electronics and communications seruices, including those
used for navigational aids, radar, telemetry, tests and measurements, global positioning
and personnel/vehicle location
P 1, 000.00 per location.
3. Automated teller machines, ticketing, vending and other types of electronic dispensing
machines, telephone booths, pay phones, coin changers, location or direction-finding
systems, navigational equipment used for land, aeronautical or maritime applications,
photography and reproduction machines x-ray, scanners, ultrasound and other

Ord. No. 029L-t7
apparatus/equipment used for medical, biomedical laboratory and testing purposes and
other similar electronic or electronically-controlled apparatus or devices, whether located
indoor outdoors...... F10.00 per unit.
4. Electronics and communications outlets used for connection and termination of voice,
data, computer (including workstations, servers, routers, etc.), audio, video, or any form
of elestronics and communications seruices, irrespective of whether a user terminal is
connected P 2.40 per outlet
5. Station/terminaflcontrol point/pofl/central or remote panels/outlets for security and
alarm systems (including watchman system, burglar alarms, intrusion detection systems,
lighting controls, monitoring and surueillance system, sensors, detectors, parking
management system, barrier controls, signal lights, etc.), electronics fire alarm (including
early-detection systems, smoke detectors, etc.), sound-reinforcement/background,
music/paging/conference systems and the like, CATV/MATV/CCTV and off-air television,
electronically-controlled conveyance systems, building automation, management systems
and similar types of electronic or electronically-controlled installations whether a user
terminal is connected ...........
P 2.40 per termination
6. Studios, auditoriums, theaters, and similar structures for radio and W broadcast,
recording, aud io/video reproduction/simu lation a nd simi lar activities
P 1,000.00 per location
7. Antenna towers/masts or other structures for installation of any electronic and/or
communications transmission/reception............ P 1,000,00 per structure
B. Electronic or electronically-controlled indoor and outdoor signages and display systems,
including TV monitors, multi-media signs, etc, ....
P 50.00 per unit
9. Poles and attachment:
i, Per Pole (to be paid by pole owner).....
ii. Per attachment (to be paid by any
entity who attaches to the pole of others)
20.00
10. Other types or electronics or electronically-controlled device, apparatus, equipment,
instrument or units not specifically identified above..................P 50.00 per unit
SECTION 15O. Time of Payment. - The fees imposed in this Article shall be paid
to the City Treasurer before securing a Building or Repair Permit from the City
Engineer/Building Official and upon application for a permit from the City Engineer to
install or alter any electrical lighting, power, telephone or telegraph, or any other electrical
system or line, exterior or interior, or to install any electrical apparatus or machine.
SECTION 15L. Administrative Provisions,
(a) Application for the permit from the City Engineer shall be filed by the actual
contractor who must be a registered electrical contractor. The permit issued shall be
posted in a conspicuous place in the premises of the building, together with the Building
Permit issued by the Building Official/City Engineer.
20.00

Ord. No. 0291-L7
If the work is found not in conformity with the requirements of law or
Ordinance, or the conditions set fofth in the permit, the fees thereon shall be forfeited.
(b) The contractor or owner of the house or building shall apply for inspection
and approval of the new interior electrical installation, repair, or alteration as soon as the
work is on process, and as soon as conformity with the requirements is determined, the
Building Official shall issue a certificate of completion.
No interior electrical installation, repair, alteration or concealed or enclosed
electrical installation shall be done or used without prior inspection and approval of the
City Engineer/Building Offi cial.
In case of a condemned installation, if the owner of the building or user fails
to repair or remove the condemned installation, the electrical wires, poles or fittings and
other appliances and apparatus within ten (10) days after notice, the City
Engineer/Building Official shall immediately disconnect the electric service.
Article Ten. - Mechanical Permit Fees
SECTION 152. Imposition of Fee, - There shall be collected Mechanical Permit
Fees for the installation of any machinery or mechanical equipment, enumerated
hereunder.
Rates'*
(a) Mechanical Permit Fees
1. Refrigeration, Air Conditioning and Mechanical Ventilation:
r. Refrigeration (cold storage), per ton or fraction thereof..
ii.Ice Plants, per ton or fraction thereof.....
iii. P ackaged/Centra I ized Ai r Co n d ition i n g Systems :
Up to 100 tons, per ton.....
iv. Every ton or fraction thereof above 100 tons...
rz. Window type air conditioners, per unit..........
r. Mechanical Ventilation, per kW or fraction thereof
40.00
60.00
90.00
40.00
60.00
of blower or fan, or metric equivalent.
40.00
vii.In a SERIES of AC/REF systems located in one establishment, the total
installed tons of refrigeration shall be used as the basis of computation
for purposes of installation/inspection fees, and shall not be considered
individually.
For evaluation purposes:
For Commercial/Industrial Refrigeration without Ice Making (refer to SECTION
152.a.1.i):
1.10 kW per ton, for compressors up to 5 tons capacity.
1.00 kW per ton, for compressors above 5 tons up to 50 tons capacity.
0.97 kW per ton, for compressors above 50 tons capacity.
lr
I

For Ice making (refer to SECTION 152 a.l.ii.):
3.50 kW per ton, for compressors up to 50 tons capacity.
3.25 kW per ton, for compressors above 5 up to 50 tons capacity.
3.00 kW per ton, for compressors above 50 tons capacity.
Paeje 113
Ord. No. 029L-L7
10.00
20.00
For Air conditioning (refer to SECTION L52 a.1.iii,):
0.90 kW per ton, for compressors 1.2 to 5 tons capacity.
0.80 kW per ton, for above 5 up to 50 tons capacity.
0.70 kW per ton, for compressors above 50 tons capacity.
2. Escalators and Moving Walks, funiculars and the like:
r. Escalator and moving walk, per kW or fraction thereof.
ri. Escalator and moving walks up to 20.00 lineal meters
or fraction
iii. Every lineal meter or fraction thereof in excess
of 20.00 lineal meters.
ir. Funicular, per kW or fraction
a. Per lineal meter travel.......
r. Cable car, per kW or fraction thereof,
a. Per lineal meter travel.......
3. Elevators, per unit:
r. Motor driven dumbwaiters...........
/. Construction elevators for materia|..............
li7. Passenger elevators.........,....
iv. Fr eight elevators. .
v. Car elevators..
4. Boilers, per kW:
i. Up to 7.5 kW.....
ri. Above 7.5 kW to 22 kW...........
iii. Above 22 kW to 37 kW
iv. Above 37 kW to 52 kW
rz. Above 52 kW to 67 kW
vi. Above 67 kW to 74 kW
vii. Every kW or fraction thereof above 74 kW......
600.00
2,000.00
5,000.00
5,000.00
5,000.00
10.00
200.00
20.00
40.00
s.00
s00.00
700.00
900.00
1,200.00
1,400.00
1,600.00
5.00
NOTE: (a) Boiler rating shall be computed on the basis of 1.00 sq. meter of heating
suface for one (1) boiler kW.
(b) Steam from this boiler used to propel any prime-mover is exempted from fees.
(c) Steam engines/turbines/etc. propelled from geothermal source will use the
same schedule of fees above
5. Pressurized water heaters, per unit.......
200.00
6. Water sump and sewage pumps for commercial/industrial use, per kW or fraction
60.00
7. Automatic fire sprinkler system, per sprinkler head
4.00
8. DieseflGasoline ICE, Steam, Gas Turbine/Engine, Hydro, Nuclear or solar Generating
Units and the like, per kW:

Ord. No. 0291-17
r. Every kW up to 50 kW......
25.00
/. Above 50 kW up to 100 kW....
20.00
iii. Every kW above 100 kW....
3.00
9. Compressed Air, Vacuum, Commercial, Institutional and/or Industrial Gases, per
outlet.
20.00
10. Power piping for gas/steam/etc., per lineal meter or fraction thereof or per cu. meter
or fraction thereof whichever is higher...
4.00
11. Other Internal Combustion Engines, including cranes, forklifts, loaders, pumps, mixers,
compressors and the like, not registered with the LTO, per kW:
r. Up to 50 kW...
10.00
12.00
3.00
ri. Above 50 kW to 100 kW
iii. Every above 100 kW or fraction thereof
12. Pressure Vessels, per cu. meter or fraction thereof........
60.00
13. Other Machinery/Equipment for commercial/ Industrial/Institutional Use not elsewhere
specified, per kW or fraction thereof.....
60.00
14. Pneumatic tubes, Conveyors, Monorails for materials handling and addition to existing
supply and/or exhaust duct works and the like, per lineal meters or fraction thereof...
10.00
NOTE: Transfer of machine/equipment location within a building
requires a mechanical permit and payment of fees.
SECTION 153, Administrative Provisions,
(a) Any machinery or mechanical equipment installations within the jurisdiction of
the City shall secure a Mechanical Permit from the City Engineer prior to installation.
(b) A certificate of operation shall be issued for the continuous use of said
machinery or mechanical equipment, after compliance with health, safety and mechanical
regulation requirements.
(c) No business license shall be issued by the Mayor's Office to commercial,
industrial, agro-industrial construction and institutional establishments without first
registering at the Industrial Safety Division, City Engineer's Office.
(d) Every boiler, internal combustion engine, mechanical apparatus moved by any
motive power in permanent installation, shall be placed on a solid foundation, the
construction of which shall be in accordance with approved plans and specifications
accompanying the application for Mechanical Permit for such boiler, internal combustion
engine, or mechanical apparatus, subject to the direction and supervision of the City
Engineer or his duly authorized representative.
Afticle Eleven. - Sign Permit Fee

Ord. No. 029t-L7
SECTION 1,54. fmposition of Fee, - Fees for the application of Sign Permits to
be paid at the Office of the City Treasurer shall be as follows:
Display Suface
a)
Sign Fees:
i. Erection and anchorage of display suface, up to
4.00 sq. meters of signboard area
(a) Every sq. meter or fraction thereof in
Excess of 4.00 sq, meters
ii. Installation Fees, per sq. meter or fraction
thereof of display surface:
P 120.00
24.00
iii. Annual Renewal Fees, per sq. meter of display suface
or fraction thereof:
Type of Sign Display
Business Signs
Advertising Signs
Neon
P36.00, min. fee shall
be P124.00
P16.00, min. fee shall
be P200.00
Illuminated
P18.00, min. fee shall
be P72.00
P38.00, min. fee shall
be P150.00
Others
P12.00, min. fee shall
be tr40.00
P20.00, min. fee shal!
be Pl10.00
Painted-on
P8.00, min. fee shall be
P30.00
P12.00, min, fee shall
be P100.00
i. The Depaftment of Public Works & Highways (DPWH) shall conduct a
nationwide inventory of all signs and signboard structures upon effectivity of
these rules and regulations in coordination with the seruice
providers/owners, representatives of Building Officials and City/Municipal
Engineers to determine if the same are to be abated or demolished.
ii. Fees covering the assessment and inventory of signs or signboard structures
as of the effective date of these rules and regulations shall apply:
1. A one-time signboard inventory fee of Php2,500.00
2. An annual inspection fee of Php7,500.00
(b) Other Remedies
The procedures, actions and remedies provided herein are without prejudice
to fufther action that may be taken by the Building Official pursuant to SECTION
2L3 of the National Building Code of the Philippines against the service
provider/owner of signs or signboard structures found or declared to be
dangerous and/or ruinous under the provisions of Atticles 482 and 694 to 707 of
the Civil Code of the Philippines.
Type of Sign Display
Teon
Business Signs
P
36.00
Advertising Signs
P
52.00
Illuminated
24.00
36.00
Others
15.00
24.00
Painted-on
9.60
18.00

Ord. No. 0291-17
il.
Structure
Erection of suppoft for any signboard, billboard and the like shall be charged a fee as
follows:(a) Up to four (4) square meter of Signboard P
100.00
(b) In every square meter or fraction thereof
50.00
fiL Renewal Fee
Renewal of Sign Permit shall include among others the corresponding payment for the
display surface and support structure of the sign as determined in accordance with this
SECTION.
ru. Other Fees
Sign Fees paid under this Article shall be without prejudice to an additional payment
of Electrical Permit Fee for signs with electrical devices as required in accordance with the
provisions of the National Building Code.
SECTION 155. Exemption to the fmposition of Fee, - Sign fees are not
required for the following adveftising andlor propaganda materials but in no case shall the
same be exempted from taking a sign permit as thereof provided:
(a) Those displayed by government agencies and/or offices, either national or
local.
(b) Those which are of charitable, religious in nature and for civic purposes; except
when sponsored by adveftisers/persons whose logo or name(s) appear on the sign
displayed, which adveftisers/persons are not exempt by law. However, they shall be subject
to an administrative fee of Ten Pesos (P 10.00) per location where such signs/streamers are
installed.
(c) Those displayed in the premises of the person displaying it if the material does
not exceed six (6) square meters in area except: (1) When it is a billboard, business sign,
electrical sign, ground sign, projecting sign, roof sign, signboard and wall signs; or (2) When
sponsored by adveftisers/persons whose logo or name(s) appear on the sign displayed, said
adveftisers/persons are not exempt by law.
Provided, however, that this exemption shall not relieve the owner from responsibility
in case of any accident arising out of that design, construction, installation, maintenance and
removal of signs displayed or exhibited.
SECTION 156. fssuance of Sign Permits, - It shall be unlawful for any person,
juridical or natural, to hang temporary signs, post posters or install billboards, business
signs, electrical signs, ground signs, projecting signs, roof signs, signboards and wall
signs, or display similar advertising and propaganda materials, unless:
(a) An application for a sign permit is filed with the Office of the Local Building
Official and approved by the City Mayor or his duly designated representative.
(b) The application is accompanied with location plan, structural design, written
consent of the owner of the premises and such other peftinent data as may be required by
the Local Building Official.

Ord. No. 029L-L7
(c) Payment of sign fee is made with the Office of the City Treasurer in accordance
with SECTION 154 of this Article.
(d) For billboards, business signs, electrical signs, ground signs, projecting signs,
roof signs and wall signs, there must be compliance with the requirements and limitations
imposed by this Article and other applicable statutes and/or Ordinances.
SECTION L57. Effectivity of Sign Permit - Sign permits shall be automatically
revoked upon lapsed of the following periods, to be counted from the date of issuance of
an approved sign permit:
(a) One (1) year for billboards, business signs, electrical signs, ground signs,
projecting signs, roof signs, signboards and wall signs.
A sign permit issued under the provisions of this Article shall expire and become null
and void if the work authorized therein is not commenced within a period of ninety (90) days
from the date of the issuance of the permit or if the work so authorized is suspended or
abandoned at anytime after it has commenced for a period of ninety (90) days. Provided
that, no construction and/or display shall be allowed upon abandonment, noncommencement or suspension of work unless upon payment of the sign permit fee with a
corresponding surcharge of twenty-five percent (25o/o) of the total fees.
(b) Two (2) months for posters.
(c) Two (2) months for temporary signs.
(d) Two (2) months for other adveftising and/or propaganda materials.
SECTION 158. Ertension of Sign Permits, - Extension of sign permits shall be
granted upon filing of an application in accordance with SECTION 156 and payment of sign
fee in accordance with SECTION L54, provided, that the application and payment for
extension shall be done within the period sought to be extended.
In cases where the application for extension is done beyond the period sought to
be extended, the applicant shall be imposed in addition to an extension sign permit fee, a
surcharge equivalent to twenty-five percent (25olo) of the amount due, for reason of delay.
Provided further, that all signs and sign structures must be in good and presentable
condition, as may be determined by the Building Official, until such period sought to be
extended.
SECTION 159. Marking RequiremenB, - It shall be unlawful for any person
who has been issued a permit to install, erect, construct, post, paste, hang or attach
advertising and/or propaganda materials unless the same bear the following:
(a) The name or names of the structure owner.
(b) The permit number and its date of issuance.
(c) The duration of the display which shall not exceed the period stated
in SECTION L57 of this Code.
tuemption Marking is not required for adveftising and/or propaganda materials displayed in
the premises of the person displaying it, except, (1) When such material is a billboard,
business sign, electrical sign, ground sign, projecting sign, roof sign, signboard and wall sign,
or (2) When sponsored by advertisers/persons whose logo or name(s) appear in the sign
displayed, said advertisers/persons are not exempt by law.

Ord. No. 029L-L7
SECTION 160. Restricted Areas. - It shall be unlawful for any person to install
or display any advertising and/or propaganda materials in the following areas:
(a) Across public thoroughfares.
(b) On any electrical post along streets / islands.
(c) On parks and playgrounds.
(d) On church and school fences.
(e) On sidewalks and public waiting sheds.
(D Traffic light posts,
(g) On bridges and bridge approaches (for streamers)
(h) On trees along main streets or thoroughfares.
(i)
Pedestrian overpasses and flyovers, and
Waiting sheds.
Exemption Except when propaganda materials are displayed by or under authority
of a government agency, whether national or local, provided such materials are covered with
a prior sign permit from the Office of the Local Building Official which shall be removed upon
expiry date as indicated in the sign permit.
SECTION 161. Monitoring Official, - The Building Official has the authority to
monitor and superuise the appropriateness of the location, site, design, materials and
anchorage of signs and sign structures so as to ensure that all those displayed are
installed, hanged and posted in accordance with the regulation provided in this Article.
Any signs and sign structures which are not in accordance with this Afticle, may be
removed by the City Engineer and/or other agencies as may be designated by the City
Mayor, upon recommendation of the Building Official, provided that prior notice is given to
the owner.
SECTION 162. Signs and Sign Structures, in General, - All advertising signs,
business signs, roof signs, ground signs, projecting signs, wall signs, temporary signs,
streamers, posters and the like shall be maintained by the owner of the structure in a safe
and presentable condition. Should a sign become, in the opinion of the Local Building
Official, unsafe or an eyesore, the owner andlor adveftiser shall, upon notice from the
Local Building Official, immediately restore the sign to a safe and satisfactory condition,
within fifteen (15) days from receipt of notice.
Such notice shall contain therein that non-compliance to the order within the period
stipulated shall warrant the removal of the signs or sign structures.
SECTION 163. Removal, - The City Engineer or his duly authorized
representatives shall remove, upon recommendation of the Building Official, the following
at the expense of the displaying party:
(a) Those displayed without permit from the Local Building Official, provided that
the displaying pafi shall be given a reasonable period of sixty (60) days from receipt of
the notice to comply with the sign permit requirement provided hereof.
(b) Those displayed with a permit but without bearing the necessary permit
marking requirement as provided in SECTION 160, provided that the displaying pafi shall
be given a reasonable period of sixty (60) days from receipt of the notice to comply with
the marking permit requirement provided hereof.

Ord. No. 0291-L7
(c) Those displayed beyond the expiry date as provided in SECTION 157,
however, if the displaying party intends to renew such permit even beyond the period
sought to be extended, the same shall be given a reasonable period of sixty (60) days
from receipt of the notice to comply with the renewal requirement provided hereof without
prejudice to the payment of surcharge of twenty-five percent (25o/o) of the total fees for
such delay.
(d) Those displayed in public places and/or structures as stated in SECTION 160.
(e) Those billboards, business signs, electrical signs, ground signs, projecting
signs, roof signs or wall signs which are installed or constructed in violation of this Article
or other applicable Statutes and Ordinances.
SECTION L64. Penalty, - Any person, whether natural or juridical, found
violating the provisions of this Article shall be penalized as follows:
(a) For the first offense, a fine of not less than One Thousand Five Hundred
Pesos (P1,500.00) but not more than Three Thousand Pesos (P3,000.00), or an
imprisonment of not less than seven (7) days but not more than one (1) month, or both
fine and imprisonment at the discretion of the court.
(b) For the second or subsequent offense, a fine of not less than Three
Thousand Pesos (P3,000.00) but not more than Five Thousand Pesos (P5,000.00), or an
imprisonment of not less than one (1) month and one (1) day but not more than two (2)
months, or both fine and imprisonment at the discretion of the court.
(c) In case the violation is in pursuance of the business of the violator, it shall
be meted with a penalty of revocation of business permit upon the second or subsequent
offenses.
(d) In case the violation has been committed by a juridical person, the person incharge of management and who has knowledge thereof shall be held responsible.
Afticle Twelve. - Permit Fee for Zoning / Locational Clearance
SECTION 165. fmposition of Fee, - There shall be collected a Mayor's Permit
Fee for Zoning/Locational Clearance for all structures constructed within the City of Davao
in accordance with the prescribed HLURB rates:
(a) Application/Filing Fees:
1LocationalClearance
2.
Motion for reconsideration
3.
Petition/requestforreclassification/variance
4.
Filing Complaint
P 150.00
600.00
1,500.00
600.00
This excludes the cost of reclassification proceedings such as
production/reproduction of maps and other documents, public hearings and publication
which shall likewise be charged to the account of the applicant/proponent.
(b) Zoning Ceftifications
P 750lha or
a fraction thereof
The Zoning Administrator is hereby authorized to increase the rates herein
prescribed by not more than fifty percent (50o/o) if he so sees its propriety with the
consent or prior approval of the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod. However, such increase or
decrease shall not be done oftener than once a year.

Ord. No. 029L-L7
Except for government-owned or controlled corporation, all government projects,
whether national or local, are exempted from the payment of the prescribed fees;
provided, however, that the locational clearance must be secured prior to the finalization
of the plans and the issuance of the corresponding building permit.
Owners or operators of subdivision projects shall pay the following fees to the City
Treasurer based on the order of payment issued by the City Planning and Development
Coordinator or by his duly authorizerd representative in accordance with the following
schedules:
A. Single Residential structure
attached or detached
1. 100,000 and below
2. Over 100,000 to 200,000
3. Over 200,000
B. Apaftments/Townhouses
1. P 500,000 and below
2. Over 500,000 to 2 million
3. Over 2 Million
C. Dormitories
t. P 2 Million and below
2. Over 2 Million
D. Commercial, Industrial and
Agro-Industrial Project Cost of
Which is :
1. Below P 100,000
2. Over 100,000 - 500,000
4. Over 1 Million - 2 Million
5. Over 2 Million
P 2BB.OO
s76.00
720.00 +
(1/10 of to/o in excess
of 200,000)
P L,440.00
2,160.00
3,600.00 +
(U10 of lo/o of cost in
excess of 2 Million
regardless of the number
of floors)
P 3,600.00
3,600.00 +
(U10 of Lo/o of
cost in excess of
2 Million regardless
of the number of
floors)
P
1,440.00
2,160.00
3,600.00
7,240.00
(1/10 of 1olo of
cost in excess of
2 Million)

Ord. No. 029L-L7
E. Institutional
Project Cost of which is :
1. Below 2 Million
2. Over 2 Million
F. Special Uses/Special Projects
(Gasoline Stations, cell site,
slaughter house, treatment
plant, etc.)
1. Below 2 Million
2. Over 2 Million
G. Alteration/Expansion
(affected area/cost only)
6. Occupancy Permit
xProcessing Fee
a. Socialized Housing
b. Economic Housing
xlnspection Fee
(saleable floor area of the
housing component)
a. Socialized Housing
b. Economic Housing
I. SUBDIVISION AND CONDOMINIUM
PROJECTS (under P.D. 957)
A.) Approval of Subdivision Plan (including
Town Houses)
1. Preliminary Approval and Locational
Clearance (PALC)/Preliminary Subdivision
Development Plan (PSDP)
*Processing Fee
xlnspection Fee
2. Final Approval & Development Permit
xProcessing Fee
P
2,880.00
2,890.00 +
(U10 of 1olo of
cost in excess of
2 Million)
P 7,200.00
7,200.00 +
(U10 of 1olo of
cost in excess of
2 Million)
same as original
application
P 6/sq.m.
P 7.201sq. m.
P 1,500/ha
P 1,500/ha
P360/ha or a fraction
thereof
P1,500.00/ha
regardless of
density
P2,BB0/ha
regardless of
density

Page L22
Ord. No. 0291-t7
3.) Alteration of Plan (affected areas only) same as Final Approval
& Development Permit
4.) Ceftificate of Completion
*Inspection Fee
P1,500/ha regarless
of density
x Additional Fee on Floor Area of housing
component
xlnspection Fee
B.) Condominium Project
1. Approval of Condominium
Plans/Final Approval and
Development Permit
1. Preliminary Approval and
Locational Clearance
2. Final Approval/
Development Permit
xProcessing Fee
a. Land Area
b. No. of Floors
c. Building Areas
*Inspection Fee
3. Alteration of Plan
(affected areas only)
II. Projects under BP 22O
A. Subdivision
1. Preliminary Approval and Locational
Clearance
*Processing Fee
a. Socialized Housing
b. Economic Housing
x Inspection Fee
a. Socialized Housing
b. Economic Housing
2. Final Approval and Development Permit
xProcessing Fee
a. Socialized Housing
b. Economic Housing
P3.00/sq.m.
P1,500/ha or a fraction
thereof
P 720
P7.20/sq.m.
P288/floor
P23.05/sq.m. of GFA
P1,500/ha
same as Final Approval
and Development Permit
P 90/ha
P 2t6lha
P1,500/ha
P1,500/ha
P 600/ha
Pt,440lha

Ord. No. 0291,-t7
x Building Permit (Floor area of housing
unit)
P 7.20/sq.m.
3. Alteration of Plan (affected areas only) same as Final Approval
& Development Permit
4.) Ceftificate of Completion
xlnspection Fee
P 1,500/ha
xlnspection Fee
a. Socialized Housing
b. Economic Housing
B.) Condominium Project
1. Approval of Condominium
Plans/Final Approval and
Development Permit
1. Preliminary Approval and
Locational Clearance
2. Final Approval/
Development Permit
xProcessing Fee
a. Land Area
b. No. of Floors
c. Building Areas
*Inspection Fee
3. Alteration of Plan
(affected areas only)
4. Conversion
(affected areas only)
III. Approval of
IndustriaU Commercial Subdivision
1. Preliminary Approval and Locational
Clearance
*Processing Fee
*Inspection Fee
2. Final Approval & Development Permit
*Processing Fee
*Inspection Fee
(Projects already inspected for PALC
application may not be charged inspection
fgu)
P1,500/ha
P1,500/ha
P 720
P7.20/sq.m.
Pl44lfloor
P5.80/sq.m. of GFA
P1,500/ha
same as Final Approval
and Development Permit
same as Final Approval
and Development Permit
P 432lha.
P1,500/ha
P 720.ha.
P1,500/ha.

Ord. No. 029I-17
4. Ceftificate of Completion
xlnspection Fee
P 1,500/ha
IV. Approval of Farm lot Subdivision
1. Preliminary Approval and Locational Clearance
*Processing Fee
p 2BB/ha.
x Inspection Fee
P1,500/ha
2. Final Approval and
Development Permit
3. Alteration of Plan (affected areas only)
xProcessing Fee
xlnspection Fee
(Projects already inspected for PALC
application may not be charged inspection
fee)
3. Alteration of Plan (affected areas only)
4.Certificate of Completion
*Inspection Fee
Memorial Projects
Cemeteries
Columbarium
V. Approval of Memorial Park/Cemetery
Project/Columbarium
1. Preliminary Approval and Locational Clearance
a. Memorial Projects
b. Cemeteries
c. Columbarium
xlnspection Fee
same as Final Approval
and Development Permit
PL,440lha.
P1,500/ha.
same as Final Approval
and Development Permit
P 1500/ha.
P 720lha.
P 288/ha.
P3,600/ha.
P1,500/ha.
P1,500/ha.
P1,500/ha.
a
b
c

Ord. No. 029L-L7
2. Final Approval and
Development Permit
a. Memorial Projects
b. Cemeteries
c. Columbarium
xlnspection Fee
(Projects already inspected for PALC
application may not be charged inspection
fee)
a. Memorial Projects
b. Cemeteries
c. Columbarium
3.) Alteration Fee
4.) Ceftificate of Completion
*Inspection Fee
a. Memorial Projects
b Cemeteries
c. Columbarium
P 3.00/sq.m.
P 1.50/sq.m.
P 7.20lsq.m.land area
P 3.00/floor
P 23.05/sq.m. of GFA
P1,500/ha.
P1,500/ha.
P1,500/ha.
same as Final Approval
and Development Permit
P1,500/ha.
P7,500/ha.
P1,50O/floor
SECTION 166. Exemptions, - Except for government-owned or controlled
corporations, all government projects, whether national or local, are exempt from the
payment of the prescribed fees; provided, however, that the locational clearance must be
secured prior to the finalization of the plans and the issuance of the corresponding
building permit.
SECTION 167. Time of Payment, - The fees in this Article shall be paid by the
applicant or his representative to the City Treasurer prior to the issuance of locational
clearance.
SECTION 168. Administrative Provision, - The City Mayor shall administer the
provision of this Article and other existing ordinances, executive orders, laws relating to
and governing zoning / locational clearance.
Afticle Thifteen. - Permit Fee for Temporary Use of Roads, Streets,
Sidewalk, Alleys, Patios, Plazas and Playgrounds
SECTION 169. fmposition of Fee, - Any person who shall temporarily use
and/or occupy a street, sidewalk, or alley or poftion thereof in this city in connection with
their construction works and other purposes, shall first secure a permit from the City
Mayor and pay a fee in the following schedule:
1) For construction
P6.00/sq.m.per week
or a fraction thereof
P3.00/sq.m. per day
2) Others

Ord. No. 029t-L7
For wake and other charitable, religious and educational purposes, use and/or
occupancy of not more than ten (10) days is exempted from the payment of permit fee
provided a corresponding permit is secured prior to such use and/or occupancy.
SECTION 170. Time of Payment. - The fee shall be paid to the City Treasurer
upon application of the permit with the City Mayor.
SECTION L7L, Administrative Provisions, - The period of occupancy and/or
use of the street, sidewalk, or alley or poftion thereof shall commence from the time the
construction permit is issued and shall terminate only upon the issuance of the certificate
of building occupancy. The City Engineer shall repoft to the City Treasurer the area
occupied for purposes of collecting the fee.
Afticle Foulteen. - Permit Fee for the Storage of Flammable and
Combustible Materials
SECTION 172. Imposition of Fee, - Every person or entity who operates and
maintain storage facilities and depots, used for flammable, combustible or explosive
substance within the City shall secure a yearly permit or Ceftiflcate of Inspection as to
compliance with standard safety requirements and regulations from the City Health Office
and the City Engineer's Office in coordination with the City Fire Marshall and shall pay the
following Regulatory Fees on business hazardous and dangerous to life and limb, to be
computed on the bases of the total volume or weight, as the case maybe on the
substances which are stored in or used by the facilities or depots during the preceding
calendar year.
A, Storage of Flammable, Combustible, or Explosive Substance:
1.
Flammable liquids with flash points at 20 degrees Fahrenheit or below such as
gasoline and other carbon basophile, naptha, benzon, allodin and acetone:
1 to 25 gals.
Over 25 to 50 gals
Over 50 to 100 gals
Over 100 to 500 gals
Over 500 to 1,000 gals
Over 1,000 to 1,500 gals
Over 1,500 to 2,000 gals
Over 2,000 to 2,500 gals
Over 2,500 to 3,000 gals
Over 3,000 to 3,500 gals
Over 3,500 to 4,000 gals
Over 4,000 to 8,000 gals
Over 8,000 to 10,000 gals
Over 10,000 to 50,000 gals
Over 50,000 to 200,000 gals
Over 200,000 to 500,000 gals
Over 500,000 to 1,500,000 gals
Over 1,500,000 gals
In excess of 2,000,000 gals
Plus P 1.00/100 gals
P 22.00
44.00
BB.OO
132.00
198.00
264.00
330.00
396.00
495.00
60s.00
715.00
825.00
1320.00
2,200.00
3,300.00
4,400.00
5,500.00
6,600.00
6,600.00

Page L27
Ord. No. 0291-t7
2.
Flammable liquids with flash point at above 20 degrees Fahrenheit and below 100
degrees Fahrenheit such as alcohol, amyl acetate, torout, ethyl acetate:
P 27.50
44.00
66.00
82.50
165.00
330.00
ss0.00
1,100.00
1,650.00
B. Combustible Liquids
1'
Combustible liquids with flash point at 100 degrees Fahrenheit to 200 degrees
Fahrenheit such as turpentine, thinner, prepared paints, diesel oil, fuel oil, keroiene,
varnish, cleansing solvent, polishing liquids:
1 to 25 gals
Over 25 to 50 gals
Over 50 to 100 gals
Over 100 to 500 gals
Over 500 to 1,000 gals
Over 1,000 to 5,000 gals
Over 5,000 to 25,000 gals
Over 25,000 to 50,000 gals
Over 50,000 gals
1 to 25 gals
Over 25 to 100 gals
Over 100 to 500 gals
Over 500 to 2,000 gals
Over 2,000 to 10,000 gals
Over 10,000 to 50,000 gals
Over 50,000 to 100,000 gals
Over 100, 000 gals
1 to 25 gals
Over 25 to 50 gals
Over 50 to 100 gals
Over 100 to 500 gals
Over 500 to 1,000 gals
Over 1,000 to 20,000 gals
Over 20,000 gals
1 to 25 gals
Over 25 to 100 gals
Over 100 to 500 gals
Over 500 to 2,000 gals
Over 2,000 to 10,000 gals
Over 10,000 to 50,000 gals
Over 50,000 to 100,000 gals
Over 100,000 gals
2.
Combustible liquids with flash point over 200 degrees Fahrenheit when subject to
spontaneous ignition or is artificially heated or higher than its flash point as petroleum oil,
crude oils and others:
P 22.00
44.00
82.50
165.00
550.00
1,100.00
1,650.00
2,750.00
P 22.00
33.00
5s.00
142.00
242.00
330.00
5s0.00
P 11.00
22.A0
66.00
132.00
330.00
660.00
990.00
1,650.00
c
Acetylene, hydrogen, coal, gas, and other flammables in gaseous form,
including liquefied petroleum gas and other compressed gases;
il

D, Combustible Solids
1.
Calcium Carbide
1 to 20 kgs.
Over 20 kgs. but not more than 50 kgs.
Over 50 kgs. but not more than 500 kgs.
Over 500 kgs. but not more than 1,000 kgs.
Over 1,000 kgs. but not more than 5,000 kgs.
Over 5,000 kgs. but not more than 10,000 kgs.
Over 10,000 kgs. but nor more than 50,000 kgs
Over 50,000 kgs.
2.
Pyrolp<in
1 to 50 kgs.
Over 50 kgs. to 200 kgs.
Over 200 kgs. to 500 kgs.
Over 500 kgs. to 1,000 kgs.
Over 1,000 kgs. to 3,000 kgs.
Over 3,000 kgs. to 10,000 kgs.
Over 10,000 kgs.
3.
Matches
1 to 100 kgs.
Over 100 to 500 kgs.
Over 500 to 1,000 kgs.
Over 1,000 to 5,000 kgs.
Over 5,000 kgs.
1 to 25 kgs.
Over 25 to 100 kgs.
Over 100 to 500 kgs.
Over 500 to 1,000 kgs.
Over 1,000 to 5,000 kgs.
Over 5,000 kgs.
1 to 100 cu. ft.
Over 100 to 500 cu. ft.
Over 500 to 1,000 cu. ft.
Over 1,000 to 2,500 cu. ft.
Over 2,500 cu. ft.
Ord. No. 029L-L7
55.00
72.50
110.00
165.00
220.00
330.00
440.00
P 44.00
82.50
110.00
220.00
440.00
660.00
1,375.00
P 44.00
16s.00
275.00
5s0.00
1,100.00
P 44.00
55.00
110.00
220.00
330.00
440.00
P 44.00
Nitrate, phosphorous, bromine sodium, picric acid & other hazardous explosive,
corrosive oxidizing & lachrymatory properties:
5.
Shredded combustible materials such as wood shavings (kusot) waste (estopa),
sisal, oakum and other similar combustible shaving and fine materials:
P 44.00
82.s0
110.00
220.00
330.00

Ord. No. 029t-17
6.
Tar resin, waxes, copra, rubber, coal, bituminous coal & similar combustible
materials:
1 to 100 kgs.
Over 100 to 500 kgs.
Over 500 to 1,000 kgs.
Over 1,000 to 3,000 kgs.
Over 3,000 to 5,000 kgs.
Over 5,000 to 10,000 kgs
Over 10,000 kgs.
7,
Cinematograph films. (As amended by Ord. No. 008, SERIES of 1998)
With total aggregate weight of not more than 500 kls.
With total aggregate weight of more than 500 kls
but not more than 2,000 kls.
With total aggregate weight of more than 2,000 kls.
P 44.00
82.50
165.00
220.00
27s.00
385.00
660.00
P 220.00
440.00
660.00
SECTION L73. Time of Payment. - The fees imposed in this Afticle shall be paid
to the City Treasurer upon application for his permit with the City Mayor to store the
aforementioned su bstances.
SECTION L74. Administrative Provisions,
(a) No person shall keep or store at his place of business any of the following
flammable, combustible or explosive substances without securing a permit therefore.
Gasoline or naphtha not exceeding the quantity of one hundred (100) gallons, kept in and
used by launches or motor vehicles shall be exempt from the Permit fee herein required.
(b) The City Mayor shall promulgate regulations for the proper storing of said
substances and shall designate the proper official to superuise therefor.
Article Fifteen. - Regulation and Fees for the Conveyance or
Transpoftation of any Explosive or Hazardous Inflammable Liquids within the
limits of the City of Davao
SECTION 175. Permit, -It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
convey or transpoft any explosive or hazardous inflammable liquid within the City of Davao
in any truck, tank, trailer, vessels, boat or craft or any motor vehicle without first having
obtained a permit from the City Mayor for said conveyance, upon recommendation by the
Chief of Local Fire Seruice.
SECTION L76. Hazardous fnflammable Liguid, -
Shall be considered to
include those liquids with points below one hundred (100) degrees Fahrenheit such as
gasoline, oil, kerosene and other similar materials.
SECTION 177. fmposition of Fees, -
For every permit granted under the
provisions of this 1-itle, the following fees shall be paid by the manufacturer, distributors,
the dealers and the gasoline oil depot:

Ord. No. 029L-17
(a)
(b)
o
(d)
(e)
Cargo trucks a payload capacity of
20-50 gallons or equivalent
P
Over 50 gallon drums or equivalent
Tank trucks, tank trailer and semi-tank trailers,
having capacity of:
6,000 liters or less
over 6,000 liters
Self -propelled or non-self propelled package
Self-propelled or non-propelled bull(craft
1,000.00
1,500.00
1,000.00
1,500.00
1,000.00
1,500,00
P 300.00 for the first 5 days
50.00 per day thereafter
Provided that no fuel for consumption, conveyance and storage tank deposited on
the conveyance up to fiflry (50) gallons, shall be permitted without first securing permit or
paying the above fees. Provided, fufther, that no person shall be allowed to store, display
or sell any hazardous inflammable liquid, except those that were granted permit by the
City Mayor.
Provided, finally, that the government of the Republic of the Philippines and/or any
of its political subdivisions, the United States Army and Navy, United States Embassy and
members of its staff, diplomatic and consular representatives and officers of foreign
powers are hereby exempted from the imposition of the fees mentioned therein.
Article Sixteen. - Fee on Ambulant and Itinerant
Amusement Operators
SECTION 178. fmposition of Fee, - There is hereby imposed a special permit fee
on ambulant and itinerant amusement operators, during fiestas and fairs at the following
rates, subject further to the payment of amusement tax:
Circus, carnivals, or the like per day
P 500.00 for the first 5 days
100.00 per day thereafter
Merry-Go-Round, roller coaster, ferries wheel,
swing, shooting gallery and other
similar contrivances per day
Sports contesVexhibitions per day
P 300.00
SECTION 179.
Time of Paymenf, - The fee herein imposed shall be payable
before engaging in such activity.
Article Seventeen. - Permit Fee on Circus and Other Parades
SECTION 180. fmposition of Fee, - There shall be collected a Mayor's Permit Fee
of Two Hundred Pesos (P 200.00) per day on every circus and other parades using banners,
floats or musical instruments carried on in this City.
SECTION 181. Time and Manner of Payment, -The fee imposed herein shall be
due and payable to the City Treasurer upon application for a permit to the City Mayor at least
five (5) days before the scheduled date of the circus or parade shall be held.

Ord. No. 029L-17
SECTION 182. Exemption, - Civic and military parades as well as religious
processions shall not be required to pay the permit fee imposed in this Afticle.
SECTION L83. Administrative Provisions,
(a) Any person who shall hold a parade within this city shall first obtain a permit
from the City Mayor before undeftaking the activity. For this purpose, a written application
in a prescribed form shall indicate the name, address of the applicant, the description of the
activity, the place or places where the same will be conducted and such other peftinent
information as may be required.
(b) The Station Commander of the Philippine National Police shall promulgate the
necessary rules and regulations to maintain an orderly and peaceful conduct of the activities
menUoned in this Article. He shall also define the boundary within which such activities may
be lawfully conducted.
Article Eighteen. - Fee for Sealing and Licensing of Weights
and Measures
SecUon 184, fmplementing Agency. -The Gty Treasurer shall strictly enforce
the provisions of the Regulation of Practices Relative to Weights and Measures, as
provided in Chapter II of the Consumer Act, Republic Act No. 7394.
SECTION 185. Sealing and Testing of fnstruments of Weights and
Measures. - All instruments for determining weights and measures in all consumer and
consumer related transactions shall be tested, calibrated and sealed every three (3)
months by the official sealer who shall be the City Treasurer or his duly authorized
representative upon payment of fees required under this Article: Provided, That all
instruments of weights and measures shall continuously be inspected for compliance with
the provisions of this Article.
SECTION L86. Imposition of Fees, - Every person before using instruments of
weights and measures within the City shall first have them sealed and licensed every three
(3) months and pay therefore to the City Treasurer the following fees excluding the
amount of the sticker or seal which shall be issued at cost, viz:
Amount of Fee
(a) For sealing linear metric measures:
Not over one (1) meter
Measure over one (1) meter
(b) For sealing metric measures of capacity:
Not over ten (10) liters
Over ten (10) liters
(c) For sealing metric instruments of weights:
With capacity of not more than 30 kg
With capacity of more than 30 kg,
but not more than 300 kg.
With capacity of more than 300 kg.
but not more than 3,000 kg.
With capacity of more than 3,000 kg.
P
20.00
40.00
80.00
160.00
160.00
240.00
320.00
400.00

Ord. No. 029L-L7
(d) For sealing apothecary balances of precision
30 kgs. or less
Over 30 kgs but not more than 300 kgs.
Over 300 kgs. but not more than 3,000 kgs.
For every 3,000 kgs.
(e) For sealing of gasoline/diesel pumps
Per pump
Per pump (oil dispenser)
(0
For sealing of every tanker compaftment
of gasoline/diesel and other petroleum
products per compaftment
200.00
100.00
100.00
(g) For each and every re-testing and re-sealing of weights and measures
instruments including gasoline pumps outside the office upon request of the owner
or operator, an additional seruice charge of One Hundred Pesos (P 100,00) for each
instrument shall be collected.
SECTION 187. Payment of Fees and Surcharge, - The fees herein imposed
shall be paid and collected by the City Treasurer when the weights or measures
instruments are sealed, before their use and thereafter, on or before the anniversary date
thereof.
The official receipt serving as license to use the instrument is valid for three (3)
months from the date of sealing unless such instrument becomes defective before the
expiration period. Failure to have the instrument re-tested and the corresponding fees
therefore paid within the prescribed period shall subject the owner or user to a surcharge
of five hundred percent (500%) of the prescribed fees which shall no longer be subject to
interest,
SECTION 188. Place of Payment, - The fees herein levied shall be paid in the
city where the persons are conducting their business. A peddler or itinerant vendor using
only one (1) instrument of weight or measure shall pay the fee in the city where he
maintains his residence.
SECTION 189. Exemptions,
(a) All instruments for weights and measures used in government work or
maintained for public use by any instrumentality of the government shall be tested and
sealed free,
(b) Dealers of weights and measures instruments intended for sale.
SECTION L9O. Administrative Prouisions,
(a) The official receipt for the fee issued for the sealing of a weight or measure
shall serve as a license to use such instrument for three (3) months from the date of
sealing, unless deterioration or damage renders the weight or measure inaccurate within
that period. The license shall expire on the day and the month of the year following its
original issuance. Such license shall be preserued by the owner and together with the
weight or measure covered by the license, shall be exhibited on demand by the City
Treasurer or his deputies.
40.00
100.00
140.00
200.00

Ord. No. 029t-L7
(b) The City Treasurer is hereby required to keep full sets of secondary
standards, which shall be compared with the fundamental standards in the Depaftment of
Science and Technology annually. When found to be sufficiently accurate, the secondary
standards shall be distinguished by label, tag or seal and shall be accompanied by a
certificate showing the amount of its variation from the fundamental standards. If the
variation is of sufficient magnitude to impair the utility of the instrument, it shall be
destroyed at the Department of Science and Technology,
(c) The City Treasurer or his deputies shall conduct periodic physical inspection
and test weights and measures instruments within the locality.
(d) Instruments of weights and measures found to be defective and such defect
is beyond repair shall be confiscated in favor of the government and shall be destroyed by
the City Treasurer in the presence of the City Auditor or his representative.
SECTION L9l, Fraudulent Practices Relative to Weights and Measures,
The following acts related to weights and measures are prohibited:
(a) For any person other than the official sealer or his duly authorized
representative to place an official tdg, seal, sticker, mark, stamp, brand or other
characteristic sign used to indicate that such instrument of weight and measure has
officially been tested, calibrated, sealed or inspected;
(b) For any person to imitate any seal, sticker, mark stamp, brand, tag or other
characteristic design used to indicate that such instrument of weight or measure has been
officially tested, calibrated, sealed or inspected;
(c) For any person other than the official sealer or his duly authorized
representative to alter in any way the certificate or receipt given by the official sealer or
his duly authorized representative as an acknowledgement that the instrument for
determining weight or measure has been fully rested, calibrated, sealed or inspected;
(d) For any person to make or knowingly sell or use any false or counteffeit seal,
sticker, brand, stamp, tag, certificate or license or any dye for printing or making the same
or any characteristic sign used to indicate that such instrument of weight or measure has
been officially tested, calibrated, sealed or inspected;
(e) For any person other than the official sealer or his duly authorized
representative to alter the written or printed figures, letters or symbols on any official seal,
sticker, receipt, stamp, tag, ceftificate or license used or issued;
(0
For any person to use or reuse any restored, altered, expired, damaged
stamp, tag certificate or license for the purpose of making it appear that the instrument of
weight or measure has been tested, calibrated, sealed or inspected;
(g) For any person engaged in the buying and selling of consumer products or of
furnishing seruices the value of which is estimated by weight or measure to possess, use
or maintain with intention to use any scale, balance, weight or measure that has not been
sealed or if previously sealed, the license therefore has expired and has not been renewed
in due time;
(h) For any person to fraudulently alter any scale, balance, weight or measure
after it is officially sealed;
(i)
For any person to knowingly use any false scale, balance, weight or
measure, whether sealed or not;
0)
For any person to fraudulently give short weight or measure in the making of
a scale;

Ord. No. 0291-L7
(k) For any person, assuming to determine truly the weight or measure of any
afticle brought or sold by weight or measure, to fraudulently misrepresent the weight or
measure thereof; or
(l) For any person to procure the commission of any such offense abovementioned by another instruments officially sealed at some previous time which have
remained unaltered and accurate and the seal or tag officially affixed therein remains
intact and in the same position and condition in which it was placed by the official sealer
or his duly authorized representative shall, if presented for sealing, be sealed promptly on
demand by the official sealer or his duly authorized representative without penalty except
a surcharge equal to two (2) times the regular fee fixed by law for the sealing of an
instrument of its class, this surcharge to be collected and accounted for by the City
Treasurer in the same manner as the regular fees for sealing such instruments.
SECTION 192. Penalties,
(a) Any person who shall violate the provisions of paragraphs (a) to (f) and
paragraph (l) of SECTION 191, upon conviction, shall be subject to a fine of not less than
One Thousand Pesos (P1,000.00) but not more than Five Thousand Pesos (P5,000.00) or
by imprisonment of not more than six ( 6 ) months, or both, upon the discretion of the
court.
(b) Any person who shall violate the provisions of paragraph (g) of SECTION 191,
the following penalties shall be imposed, in addition to the sealing registration fee imposed
under this Afticle:
A. FIRST OFFENSE:
1. Authorized to Conduct Business:
when correct but without seal
plus payment for sticker and sealing
when incorrect
P s00.00
plus payment for sticker and sealing
2. Unauthorized to Conduct Business:
correct or incorrect
confiscation of weighing scale
and fufther prosecution before the couft.
B. SECOND OFFENSE:
1) with permit
of business permit
revocation and cancellation
(c) The owner-possessor or user of instrument of weights and measures
enumerated in paragraphs (h) to (k) of SECTION 191 shall, upon conviction, be subject to a
fine of not less than Three Hundred Pesos (P300.00) or imprisonment not exceeding one
(1) year, or both, upon the discretion of the coutt..
Afticle Nineteen. - Registration and Transfer Fees on Large Cattle
SECTION 193. Imposition of Fee, -The owner of a large cattle is hereby required
to register said cattle with the City Treasurer for which a ceftificate of ownership shall be
issued to the owner upon payment of a registration fee as follows:
.... P 300.00

Ord. No. 029L-L7
(a)
(b)
(c)
For Ceftificate of Ownership
For Certificate of Transfer of Ownership
For Registration of Private Brand
Amount of Fee
P
200.00
400.00
600.00
The transfer fee shall be collected only once if the ownership of large cattle is
transferred more than once in a day.
SECTION 194. Time and Manner of Payment - The registration fee shall be paid
to the City Treasurer upon registration or transfer of ownership of the large cattle.
SECTION L95. Administrative Provisions,
(a) Large cattle shall be registered with the City Treasurer upon reaching the age
of two (2) years.
(b) The ownership of large cattle or its sale or transfer of ownership to another
person shall be registered with the City Treasurer. All branded and counter-branded large
cattle presented to the City Treasurer shall be registered in a book showing among others,
the name and residence of the owner, the consideration or purchase price of the animal in
cases of sale or transfer, and the class, color, sex, brands and other identification marks of
the cattle. These data shall also be stated in the Certificate of Ownership issued to the
owner of the large cattle.
(c) The transfer of the large cattle, regardless of its age, shall be entered in the
registry book setting fofth, among others, the names and the residence of the owners and
the purchaser; the consideration or purchase price of the animal for sale or transfer, class,
sex, brands and other identiffing marks of the animals; and a reference by number to the
original Certificate of Ownership with the name of the city issued to it. No entries of
transfer shall be made or Ceftificate of Transfer shall be issued by the City Treasurer
except upon the production of the original Ceftificate of Ownership and Ceftificates of
transfer and such other documents that show title to the owner.
SECTION L96, Applicability Clause. - The peftinent provisions of the Revised
Administrative Code and other applicable laws, ordinances, rules and regulations shall govern
all other matters relating to the registration of large cattle.
Afticle Twenty. - Permit Fee for Excavation
SECTION 197. fmposition of Fee. - There shall be imposed the following fees on
every person who shall make or cause to be made any excavation on public or private streets
within this city.
Amount of Fee
1.) Processing Fee:
a) Poles and house connections
P
1,000.00
b) All other Excavations
1,200.00
2.) Excavation permit:
a) For the lineal meter or less
1,000.00
b) Over 50 lineal meter
20.00/l'm.
c) Concrete curbs, for every lineal meter or a fraction thereof t,200.00

Ord. No, A29bL7
d) For installation of wooden/concrete poles
100.00/pole
3.) Deposit for restoration and maintenance work/sq.m. or fraction thereof:
a.) Concrete paved streets
a-1
9" thick
2,300.00
a-2
B" thick
2,100.00
a-3
7" thick
2,000.00
a-4
6" thick
1,800.00
a-5
5" thick
1,700.00
b.) Asphalt-paved streets
1,800.00
c.) Macadam-surfaced streets
1,200.00
d.) Concrete sidewalk
1,200.00
Restoration Works and other consequential responsibilities or obligations over
excavations after the completion of the underground works shall be done by the
contractor/implementing agency within one (1) month thereafter. For individual
connection, restoration shall be done by the City Engineer.
A cash deposit and/or performance bond for restoration cost of the project
undeftaken by the implementing agency such as (PLDI DCWD, etc.) based on the
schedule of restoration rates of the City Government shall be made refundable one month
after the expiration of one (1) year period.
For restoration works to be undeftaken by contract, the contractor shall post a
guaranty bond equivalent to the computed restoration cost. A certified photo copy of the
guaranty bond posted to the implementing agency is accepted.
For individual connections, a cash payment for restoration works shall be made to
the City Government.
SECTION 198. Filing of Application, - Applications for permit to undertake
excavations shall be filed with the City Engineer. The permit shall be released within five
(5) working days after submission of all requirements.
SECTION 199. Conditions in the Permit, - The permit to undertake excavations
shall contain, among others, such conditions, as maybe necessary to ensure public safety
and convenience. All such excavations shall be in accordance with the excavation and
installation plans approved by the City Engineer.
SECTION 2OO. Exercise of Superuision, - All excavation works shall be under
the supervision of the City Engineer to ensure compliance with the installation plans and
other conditions in the permit.
SECTION 2OI. Excavation Affeding Adjoining Properties:
(1) Temporary Support of Adjoining Properties the person causing any
excavation to be made shall provide such sheet piling and bracing as maybe necessary to
prevent materials or structures of adjoining propefi from caving in before permanent
support shall have been provided for the sides of an excavation.

Ord. No. 0291-17
(2) Permanent Support of Adjoining Property - whenever provisions are made for
the permanent suppoft of the sides of an excavation, the person causing such excavation to
be made shall construct an appropriate retaining wall which shall be carried to a height
sufficient to retain the soil of the adjoining area.
(3) Entrance to Adjoining Premises - for the purpose of providing temporary
support to adjoining premises, the person causing an excavation to be made shall get the
consent of the owner of the adjoining premises and construct the temporary support.
However, if such consent and entrance are not granted, the owner of adjoining premises
shall be responsible for providing necessary support as the case may be, to his premises at
his own expense, and for that purpose, he shall be given authority to enter the premises
where the excavation is to be made.
SECTION 2O2. Excavation Affecting Adjoining Structures:
(1) Excavation more than four (4) Feet Deep - whenever an excavation is carried
to the depth of more than four (4) feet long below the curb, the person causing the
excavation to be made at all times, if granted the consent of the owner of the adjoining
structure to enter, at his own expense, preserue and protect from damage all existing
structures, the safety of which may be affected by that paft of the excavation which extends
more than four (4) ft, below the curb line. He shall support such structure by proper
function, If the owner gives his consent to make and provide the necessary foundations, and
when necessary for the purpose, such owner shall be given authority to enter the premises
where such excavation is to be made.
(2) Excavation Four (4) Feet or Less in Depth - the person causing the
excavation shall preserue the safety of the structures which may be affected by the
excavation and protect them from injury and support them by proper foundation, except
as otherwise provided in excavations more than four (4) feet deep; and when necessary
for that purpose the owners of the structures shall be given the authority to enter the
premises where such excavation is to be made.
SECTION 2O3, Appropriate Guards and Markerc:
(1) The excavations shall be provided with appropriate markers and safety
guards to traveling vehicles and pedestrians. Such markers and safety guards shall carry
the identity of the person or agency undeftaking the excavation.
(2) In the event of death, injury and/or damages caused by the non-completion
of such works and/or failure of the one undeftaking work to adopt the required
precautionary measures for the protection of the general public or violation of any of the
terms and conditions of the permit, the permittee or excavator shall assume fully all
liabilities for such death, injury or damages arising therefrom. For the purpose, the
excavator/permittee shall purchase insurance coverage to answer for third party liability.
SECTION 2O4, Prohibition, - All excavation passing through canals and inseftion
pipes are strictly prohibited.
SECTION 205. Private Roads, Sidewalks and Passageways, - The City
Engineer or his authorized representative shall have the authority to inspect all diggings
and excavations being undertaken on all private roads, passageways and sidewalks and to
require that restoration of the excavated area meets the standard specifications prescribed
by the city.

Ord. No. 029L-L7
SECTION 205. Time and Manner of Payment, - The fees imposed herein shall
be paid to the City Treasurer by every person who shall make any excavation or cause any
excavation to be made upon application for Mayor's Permit, but in all cases, prior to the
excavation.
SECTION 207. Administrative Provisions,
(a) No person shall undeftake or cause to undeftake any digging or excavation, of
any part or poftion of the city streets of Davao City unless a permit shall have been first
secured from the Office of the City Mayor speciffing the duration of the excavation.
(b) Should there be an increase in the cost of labor and/or materials, including
the increase in cost of operation and maintenance of equipment, upon the
recommendation of the City Engineer and subsequent approval of the City Mayor, a
corresponding increase shall be adjusted in the restoration cost listed herein but not to
exceed fiflry percent (50o/o) of the increase in the cost of items and not more often than
once a year.
Afticle Twenty One - Permit Fee for Drainage Clearance
SECTION 208. Imposition of Fee - There shall be fees imposed on every person or
entity who shall tap with the existing drainage lines of the city:
Amount of Fee
1.) Drainage Clearance
a.) Subdivision Res. Building
P
2,000.00
b.) Institutional/Commercial Building
1,500.00
SECTION 209. Filing of Application - Applications for Drainage Clearance shall be
filed with the Engineer's Office and shall be released within fifteen (15) days after
submission of all requirements. The Drainage Clearance is a requirement for building
permit.
Article Twenty Two - Permit Fee for Road, Right of Way Clearance
SECTION 210. Imposition of Fee - There shall be fees imposed on every person or
entity who shall secure Road-Right-of-Way Clearance from the City Engineer's Office:
1.) Road-Right-of-Way Clearance
Amount of Fee
1,000.00
SECTION 211. Filing of Application - Applications for Road-Right-of-Way
Certification shall be filed with the City Engineer's Office and shall be released within (15)
fifteen (15) days after submission of all requirements.
P

Ord. No. 0291-17
Afticle Twenty -Three - Permit Fee on Film-Making
SECTION 212, fmposition of Fee. - There shall be collected the following permit
fee from any person who shall go on location filming within the territorial jurisdiction of this
City.
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
Commercial Movies
Commercial Adveft isements
Documentary Film
Video Coverage
Rate of Fee per Filming or
Until lts Completion
P
4,000.00
4,000.00
2,000.00
2,000.00
SECTION 213. Time of Payment - The fee imposed herein shall be paid to the
City Treasurer upon application for the Mayor's Permit.
SECTION 214. Exemption,-Filming activities for educational and religious purposes
and the like, for as long as it is not for commercial purposes shall be exempted to pay the
permit fee imposed in this Article.
Afticle Twenty- Four . -Permit Fee for Agricultural Machinery
and Other Heav'y Equipment
SECTION 2L5, fmposition of Fees, - There shall be collected an annual permit fee
at the following rates for each agricultural machinery or heavy equipment from operators of
said machinery, renting out said equipment in this City.
Rate of Fee Per Annum
a.
b.
c.
d.
e.
f.
g.
h.
i.
j.
k,
t.
m
n.
o.
p.
q.
r.
S.
t.
Hand tractors
Light Tractors
Heavy Tractors
Bulldozer
Forklift
Heavy Graders
Light Graders
Mechanized Threshers
Manual Threshers
Cargo Truck
Dump Truck
Road Rollers
Pay loader
Prime movers/Flatbeds
Backhoe
Rock crusher
Batching Plant
Transit/Mixer Truck
Crane
Other agricultural machinery or heavy
equiptment not enumerated above
P 600.00
2000.00
4,000.00
4,000.00
4,000.00
4,000.00
3,000.00
1,000.00
400.00
2,000.00
3,000.00
2,000.00
3,000.00
4,000.00
4,000.00
4,000.00
4,000.00
4,000.00
4,000.00
2,000.00
I
I
l

Ord. No. 029L-L7
Resident owners of heavy equipment are exempted from the imposition considering
that they are covered by Article 10, SECTION 76, Paragraph (e).
SECTION 2L6, Time and Manner of Payment, ' The fee imposed herein shall be
payable prior to the rental of the equipment upon application for a Mayor's permit.
SECTION 217.
Administrative Provisions, - The City Treasurer shall keep
a registry of all heavy equipment and agricultural machinery which shall include the make
and brand of the heavy equipment and agricultural machinery and the name and address of
the owner.
Afticle Twenty-Five. - Permit Fees on Tricycle Operation
SECTION 218. fmposition of Fees, - There shall be collected an annual fee in the
amount of Two Hundred Pesos (P 200.00) for the operation of tricycle-for-hire.
Other fees on triqcle operations:
1.
Filing fee
a. For the first five (5) units
b. For each additional unit
2.
Fare adjustment fee for fare increase
3.
Filing fee for amendment of TOP
P
600.00
s0.00
400.00
300.00
SECTION 219. Franchise and Other Fees, -The following fees shall be imposed
and collected upon the filing of the application with the City Government of Davao through
the Office of the City Treasurer, to wit:
(1) Annual Franchise Fee or Superuision Fee. To be collected once a year on or
before the anniversary date of the TOP from all holders of TOP.
(2) Filing Fee. To be collected upon application for a TOP based on the number
of units.
(3) Fare Adjustment Fee for Fare Increase. To accrue upon approval of fare
increase and to be collected with the annual franchise fee.
(4) Filing Fee for Amendment of TOP. To be collected upon application.
(5) Confirmation Fee. To be collected from all applicants which will answer for
documentation and/or postage expenses.
A.
REQUIREMENTS FOR NEW TRICYCLE OPERATOR'S PERMIT
1) 5 copies
2) 3 copies
Verified Application;
Proof of Filipino Citizenship (any of the following:
Birth Ceftificate or Voter's Affidavit
Voter's ID or Land Tltle for natural persons
SEC Ceftificate
Afticles of Incorporation
Certificate of filing of By-Laws
Ceftificate of registration;
Official Receipt for payment of registration
or Proforma Invoice;
3) 3 copies

Ord. No. 029t-17
B
4) 3 copies
Sketched Location of garage;
5.) 3 copies
Income Tax Return together with Statement of
Assets and Liabilities and Bank Deposit or
Land Tltle, if motor vehicle is encumbered;
6) 1 copy
Picture of the unit (front view only).
REQUIREMENTS FOR EXTENSION OF
TRICYCLE OPERATOR',S PERMIT (TOP)
1) Same as in "A" Numbers 1 to 5, with additional requirements:
2) 3 copies
Certificate of Public Convenience for MotorcyclesFor-Hire (MCH) permit or Provisional
Authority (PA) to operate an MCH;
Service Decisions or Computerized Ceftificate,
whichever is applicable, previously issued
by the Land Transpoftation and Regulatory
Board or the TOP issued by the City as the
case may be;
3) 3 copies
Proof of payment of quafterly percentage taxes
for the preceding year;
4>. 3 copies
5) 3 copies
Clearance the other Social Security System;
Clearance from the Depaftment of Labor and
Employment.
C.
PETMON FOR DROPPING AND SUBSTTruNON
1) 5 copies
Verified Petition;
2) 3 copies
Ceftificate of Public Convenience, MCH-PA,
Decision Computerized Ceftificate or TOP,
whichever is applicable;
3) 3 copies
Ceftificate of Registration and official receipt
for payment of registration;
4) 3 copies
Receipt of Returned Plate;
5) 3 copies
Official Receipt for Payment of Annual;
Franchise Fee or Supervision Fee;
Certificate of Registration and Official Receipt
for payment of registration or
Proforma Invoice of unit(s) in
substitution.
6) 3 copies

Ord. No. 029L-L7
D
PETMON TO REGISTER UNIT IN LIEU OF THOSE
AUTHORIZED
1) 5 copies
Verified Petition;
2) 3 copies
3) 3 copies
E.
PETMON FOR AMENDMENT OF LINE
1) 5 copies
2) 3 copies
3) 3 copies
oR/cR;
4) 3 copies
5) 3 copies
3) 3 copies
4) 3 copies
5) 3 copies
OR/CR or proforma Invoice of the unit/s to
be registered;
CPC, MCH, PA, Decision or computerized
Ceftificate or TOP, whichever is
applicable.
Verified Petition
CPC, MCH, PA, Decision or Computerized
Ceftificate or TOP, whichever is
applicable;
F.
PETMON FOR INCREASE OF EQUIPMENT OR UNITS
1) 5 copies
Verified Petition;
2) 3 copies
Proof of Payment of quafterly percentage
taxes for preceding year;
Proof of payment of Annual Franchise Fee or
Superuision Fees.
CPC, MCH, PA, Decision or Computerized
Ceftificate of TOP, whichever is
applicable;
Ceftificate of Registration & Official Receipt
of existing units;
Ceftificate of Registration & Official Receipt
or Proforma Invoice of the Additional
Units;
Official Receipt of Payment for Annual
Franchise Fees or superuision fees;
Proof of payment of quafterly percentage
taxes for the preceding year.
6) 3 copies

G.
Ord. No, 029L-L7
PETMON FOR APPROVAL OF SALE AND TRANSFER OF CPC, MCH, PA, DECISION
OR COMPUTERIZED CERTIFICATE OR TOP, WHICHEVER IS APPLICABLE WITH
EQUIPMENT.
1) 5 copies
Joint Verified petition of Vendor/Grantee and
Vendee/petitioner;
2) 3 copies
Deed of Sale and Transfer
3) 3 copies
CPC, MCH, PA, Decision, Computerized
Ceftificate or TOP, whichever is
applicable;
4) 3 copies
Ceftificate of Registration or Official Receipt
5) 3 copies
Proof of Payment of Quafterly Percentage
Taxes for preceding year;
6) 3 copies
Proof of Payment of Annual Franchise Fee or
Superuision Fee;
7) 3 copies
SSS Clearance;
B) 3 copies
Department of Labor and Employment
Clearance.
H.
EXTENSION OF TIME TO REGISTER
1)
2)
3)
5 copies
3 copies
3 copies
Verified petition;
Certificate of Registration or Official Receipt;
CPC, MCH, PA, Decision, Computerized;
Ceftificate or MTOP, whichever is applicable.
SECTION 22O, Administrative Provisions,
(a) Prospective operators of tricycles should first secure a
Tricycle Operato/s Permit C[OP) from the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod.
(b) The SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod of this City shall:
1.
Issue, amend, revise, renew, suspend, or cancel TOP and prescribe the
appropriate terms and conditions therefore; determine, fix, prescribe or periodically
adjust fares or rates for the seruice provided in a zone after public hearing; prescribe
and regulate zones of seruice in coordination with the barangay; fix, impose and
collect, and periodically review and adjust but not oftener than once every three (3)
years, reasonable fees and other related charges in the regulaticln of tricycles-for-hire;
and establish and prescribe the conditions and qualifications of seruice.
2.
Only Filipino citizens and partnerships or corporations with sixty percent
(600/o) Filipino equity shall be granted the TOP. No TOP shall be granted by the city
unless the applicant is in possession of units with valid registration papers form the
Land Transpoftation Office (LTO).

Page L44
Ord. No. 029t-L7
3.
The grantee of the TOP shall carry common carriers insurance sufficient
to answer for any liability it may incur to passengers and third pafties in case of
accidents.
4.
Operators of tricycles-for-hire shall employ drivers duly licensed by LTO
for tricycles-for-h i re.
5,
Operators who intend to stop seruice completely, or suspend service for
more than one (1) month shall report in writing such termination or suspension to the
6.
Tricycle operators are prohibited to operate on national highways
utilized by 4-wheel vehicles greater than four (4) tons and where normal speed
exceed forty (40) KPH. The SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod may provide exceptions if there
is no alternative route.
7.
Tricycles-for-hire shall be allowed to operate like a taxi seruice, i.e.,
seruice is rendered upon demand and without a fixed route within a zone.
(c) The SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod may impose a common color for tricycles for hire
in the same zone. Each tricycle unit shall be assigned and bear an identification number
aside from its LTO license plate number.
It shall establish a fare structure that will provide the operator a reasonable return or
profit, and still be affordable to the general public. The fare structure may either be flat
(single fare regardless of distance) as a minimum amount plus a basic rate per kilometer.
Operators of tricycles-for-hire are required to post in the conspicuous paft of the
tricycle the schedule of fares.
(d) The zones must be within the boundaries of this city. The existing zones which
covers the territorial unit not only of the city but other adjoining municipalities or cities as
well shall be maintained provided the operators serving the said zone secure the TOP.
(e) The City Treasurer shall keep a registry of all tricycle operators, which shall
include among others, the name and address of the operator and the number and brand of
tricycles owned and operated by said operator.
Afticle Twenty-Six. - Impounding of Motor Vehicles and
Authorizing the Collection of impounding Fees
SECTION 22L. Public Pound. - A public pound for motor vehicle is hereby
authorized to be maintained and established under the supervision of the City
Administrator in such location as may be designated by the City Mayor.
There shall be created the positions of a Pound Keeper and Assistant Pound Keeper
and such number of employees and/or laborers as may be necessary for the proper
maintenance and administration of the public pound.

(a)
(b)
(c)
Ord. No. 0291-17
SECTION 222. Duties of PNP and City Pound keepen :The Davao PNP shall
tow or impound all motor vehicles abandoned or parked under any of the circumstances
enumerated and defined in SECTION 223 of this Article. Upon being advised by the PNP, it
shall be the duty of the Pound Keeper to receive all motor vehicles found abandoned or
improperly parked under any of the circumstances enumerated and defined in SECTION
223.
Within twenty-four (24) hours after the receipt of an impounded motor vehicle, the
Pound keeper shall notify the person in whose name said vehicle is registered in the Land
Transportation Office, if known, of the fact that said motor vehicle has been impounded.
He shall keep a complete record of each impounded motor vehicle, engine and
chassis number and such other identifying description of said motor vehicle as he may
deem necessary, furnishing the owner of the vehicle of such data and the manner and
mode of disposal. He shall also keep a record of the amount collected on each motor
vehicle in case of redemption of sale as provided for in this Article.
SECTION 223. A Motor Vehicle considered to be Abandoned or fmproperly
Parked, - For the purpose of this Article, a motor vehicle shall be considered abandoned
or improperly parked if not being under the care of responsible person, and it is found in
any of the following conditions, to wit:
(a) A motor vehicle abandoned or parked in such manner as to block, obstruct
or intefere with the free movement of vehicular or pedestrian traffic.
(b) A motor vehicle abandoned in the national highway in such a manner that a
paft of the motor vehicle is parked in the cemented or asphalted portion of the road.
(c) A motor vehicle parked for repair and/or assembly work in any public street
or place by motor vehicle repair shop and/or any assembly plant shall be immediately
liable for impounding under this Afticle; and
(d) A motor vehicle parked or left on a public street or place for eight (8) hours
for any reason not specified in the foregoing paragraphs.
(e) A motor vehicle parked or left on a public place in violation of traffic rules
and regulations.
SECTION 224, Rate of Fees, - For the towing of each motor vehicle to the
public pound, the following fees shall be collected:
For each truck of over two (2) tons capacity
For each truck of two (2) tons or less capacity
For each automobile and other vehicles of over
two (2) tons capacity
P 2,000.00
1,500.00
1,000.00
(d) For each automobile and other vehicles of two
(2) tons or less capacity
700.00

(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
Page 146 of
Ord. No. 029L-17
(e) An additional fee of Fifly Pesos (P50.00) per
kilometer shall be collected outside the City Poblacion.
In addition to the foregoing fees, there shall be charged and collected the following
fees for the upkeep and/or maintenance of said impounded motor vehicles while in public
pound;
For each truck of over two (2) tons capacity
For each truck of two (2) tons or less capacity
For each automobile and other vehicles of
over two (2) tons capacity
For each automobile and other vehicles of
two (2 )tons or less capacity
P 1,000.00/day
or fraction thereof
700.00/day
or fraction thereof
500.00/day
or fraction thereof
300.00/day
or fraction thereof
A motor vehicle so impounded shall be held for a maximum period of three months
from the date of its impoundment in accordance with this Article and the provisions of
existing laws peftinent thereto.
SECTION 225. Advertisement of Impounded Vehicle, - Within forty-eight (48)
hours after receipt of any motor vehicles in the public pound, the Pound Keeper, upon the
approval of the City Mayor shall advertise or cause to be advertised once a week for two
consecutive weeks in one daily local newspaper of general circulation in the City, a
NOTICE in the following form:
MOTOR VEHICLE POUND NONCE
Impounded in the Public Pound is the following described motor vehicle: (Here
state the description of said motor vehicle and its registered owner, if known). Unless
redeemed, said motor vehicle will be sold at public auction for cash to the highest bidder,
said sale to be held at the Public Pound at _
otlock on the
day of
20 _.
Pound Keeper
The date mentioned in said notice shall be at least three (3) months from the date
the motor vehicle was received for impounding. If said motor vehicle is not redeemed
before said date, an authorized representative of the City Treasurer shall proceed to sell
the same in accordance with said notice, after a proper appraisal shall have been made by
the City Engineer and the City Treasurer or their duly authorized representatives.
The owner and/or any authorized person redeeming the impounded vehicle shall
pay the required fees and reimburse all necessary and incidental expenses relative
thereto.

Page t47
Ord. No. 029L-t7
SECTION 226. Disposition of the Proceeds of fmpounded Motor Vehicle,
After the auction sale of the impounded motor vehicle, the Pound Keeper shall render to
the City Treasurer a bill of the authorized fees and actual expenditures thereof to be
credited to the proper account. The remaining balance of the amount received by viftue of
said sale, deducting therefrom the amount of the auction expenses and all other expenses
incidental to the sale, if any, shall be turned over to the owner of such motor vehicle. If
said amount is not claimed within thirty (30) days from the date of sale, thereafter, said
balance shall accrue to the General Fund of the City.
SECTION 227. Prohibition - No Pound Keeper or employee in the public pound
shall be allowed to pafticipate, directly or indirectly, as a purchaser in the public auction
sale of an impounded motor vehicle. Such sale to the Pound Keeper or other employees of
the public pound shall be null and void.
SECTION 228. Due Care in the Safekeeping of the Impounded Motor
Vehicle, - It shall be the duty of the PNP Officer or the Pound Keeper or other employees
of the pound to exercise due care in towing or in the safekeeping of the impounded motor
vehicles, as the case may be, so as to prevent or avoid any damage to the same.
Afticle Twenty-Seven, - Permit Fee on Occupation or Calling Not
Reguiring Government Examination
SECTION 229. fmposition of Fee,- The following worker or employees nonholder of validly issued Professional Tax Receipts whether working on temporary and
permanent basis, shall secure the individual Occupational Permit at the moment they are
actually accepted by the management of any business or industrial establishment to staft
work and shall pay an annual permit fee at the rate of One Hundred Twenty-Five Pesos
(P12s.00)
SECTION 230. Requirements- Employees or workers must be a Filipino citizen,
eighteen (18) years of age at the time of application. Foreign applicant shall first secure
Alien Employment Permit from the Department of Labor and Employment. In instances
where the law allows a person below 18 years of age to work, the applicant shall submit
an affidavit of consent from his/her parent or guardian.
In cases of night and day clubs, cocKail lounges, bars, sauna bathhouse, massage
parlors, spa's and other similar places of amusement, they shall under no circumstances
allow hostesses, waiters, waitresses, enteftainers, dancers below 18 years of age to work
as such.
All employees or workers must present to the Permits and Licensing Division the
following documents for the grant of occupational permit:
NSO Authenticated Birth Ceftificate,
NBI Clearance or PNP Clearance,
Fiscal and Court Clearance,
Current Community Tax Certificate (CTC),
City Health Certificate,
Valid ID and other documents as may be required by law

Ord. No. 0291-17
SECTION 231. Time and Manner of Payment - The fees prescribed in this
Afticle shall be paid to the City Treasurer upon filing of the application for the first time and
annually thereafter within the first twenty (20) days of January of each year. The permit fee
is payable for every separate or distinct occupation or calling engaged in. Employer shall
advance the fees to the City for its employees.
Every individual, association, partnership and corporation or any business
establishment within the territorial jurisdiction of Davao City shall prepare and submit a
certified list of employees under oath, under their employ to the Permits and Licensing
Division of the City Mayor on or before the 20h day of January of every year. Such list of
employees shall include the following information:
Name and address of employee
Occupation and/or calling
Amount of tax paid
Date and number of official receipt/permit number
Year Covered
Place of payment
Any delay in compliance of this provision shall be subjected to a penalty of One
Hundred Pesos (P 100.00) for every month of delay or any fraction thereof.
SECTION 232, Surcharge for Late Payment, - Failure to pay the fee prescribed
in this Article within the time prescribed shall subject a taxpayer to a surcharge of twentyfive percent (25olo) of the original amount of the fee due; such surcharge shall be paid at
the same time and in the same manner as the tax due.
Newly hired workers and/or employees shall secure their individual Mayor's Permit
from the moment they are actually accepted by the management of any business or
industrial establishment to staft working.
For individuals who are engaged in an occupation or calling without any employer,
the individual Mayor's Permit shall be renewed also within the first twenty (20) days of
January of each year.
SECTION 233. Administrative Provisions,
(a) The City Treasurer shall keep a record of persons engaged in occupation
and /or calling not requiring government examination and the corresponding
payment of fees required under personal data for reference purpose.
(b) Persons engaged in the above-mentioned occupation or calling with valid
Mayor's Permit shall be required to surrender such permit and the corresponding Official
Receipt for the payment of fees to the City Treasurer and to the City Mayor, respectively,
for cancellation upon retirement or cessation of the practice of the said occupation or
calling.

Ord. No.029L-t7
Afticle Twenty-Eight. - Permit Fee for the Conduct of Group Activities
SECTION 234, Imposition of Fee. - Every person who shall conduct any
program or activity involving the grouping of people, such as but not limited to, bazaars/
exhibits/event organizers within the jurisdiction of this City shall obtain a Special Mayor's
Permit for every occasion and pay the following fees.
Group activities include conferences, meetings, rallies, and demonstrations. It may
also include dances, coronations, balls and other activities of the same nature.
a. For Bazaars / Event organizers based in Davao City, a daily fee of Five Hundred
Pesos (P500.00 ) in every location;
b. For Bazaars / Event organizers not based in Davao City, the following schedule
of fees shall apply;
(a.) less than thifi (30) exhibitors
(b.)Thi'ty One to Sixty (31-60) exhibitors
(c.) Sixty One to One Hundred (61-100) exhibitors
(d.) More than One Hundred (100) exhibitors
P1,000.00 per activity
P2,000.00 per activity
P3,000.00 per activity
P5,000.00 per activity
Booking activities shall be construed as selling,
Exhibitors shall pay the following fees for every stall occupied per day;
a. for every selling exhibitor
b. non - selling exhibitor
P300.00
150.00
The above-mentioned person, prior to the issuance of the Special Mayor's Permit,
shall submit a ceftified list of exhibitors or booth renters with number of stalls available for
occupation and a contract of lease, if applicable.
If inconsistencies are found in the actual number of exhibitors or stalls occupied,
the bazaarlevent organizer shall be deemed liable for the difference of the unaccounted
exhibito/s fee and stall fee and shall pay the fine of Twenty Five percent (25olo) of the
actual unpaid exhibitor's fee.
SECTION 235. Time of Payment. - The fee imposed in this Article shall be paid
to the City Treasurer upon filing of application for permit with the City Mayor through the
Permits and Licensing Division.
SECTION 235. Exemption, - Programs or activities conducted by educational,
charitable, religious and governmental institutions , NGOs duly registered/ accredited
with the City Government free to the public shall be exempted from the payment of the
fee herein imposed, provided, that the corresponding Mayor's Permit shall be secured
accordingly. Programs or activities requiring admission fees for attendance shall be
subject to the fees herein imposed even if they are conducted by exempt entities.

No. 0291-17
A copy of every permit issued by the City Mayor shall be furnished to the Chief of
Police or Station Commander of the Philippine National Police (PNP) of the city who shall
assign police officers to the venue of the program or activity to help maintain peace and
order.
Afticle Twenty-Nine. - Permit Fee for Firing Range
SECTION 238. Imposition of Fee, Every person or entity who shall establish,
operate and maintain gun clubs within Davao City shall first secure a permit from the City
Mayor through the Business Permit and Licensing Division and pay the conesponding annual
fees:
Page
Ord.
1- 5 firing range
6 - 10 firing range
more than 10 firing range........
SECTION 239. Administrative Provisions,
(a) The pre-requisites of law relative to the establishment operaUon and
maintenance of firing ranges should be strictly complied wih before a permit shall be issued.
(b) Upon the order of the City Mayor, his duly authorized representative, shall have
the authority to inspect firing ranges to ensure that the standard verification relative to Public
Safety are strictly complied with.
SECTION 240. TIme of Payment, - -[he annual fees imposed shall be paid to the
City Treasurer and renewable on or before the prescribed period.
Afticle Thirty. - Registration Fee for firnerchip of Chainsaw
SECTION 241. Imposition of Fee, - There shall be collected an annual chainsaw
registration fte payable to the City Treasurer in the amount of Five Hundred Pesos
(Ps00.00).
SECTION 242. Administrative Provisions,
(a) No person shall be allowed to possess any chainsaw in Davao City unless it
has been registered with the City Environment and Natural Resources Office (CENRO) and
the annual registration fee paid.
(b) Possession of chainsaws used illegally without registraUon shall be subject to
confiscation by the City Mayor, the City Environment and Natural Resources fficer and the
City Treasurer, and may only be returned upon payment of fine of Five Thousand Pesos
(P5,000.00 ) in addition to the annual registration fee.
P 3,000.00
P 5,000.00
P 7,500.00
SECTION 237, Administrative Provision,

Ord. No. 029L-L7
Afticle Thifi-One. - Air Gun Permit Fee
SECTION 243. fmposition of Fee, No person shall be allowed to carry an air
gun within Davao City unless the owner registers the same with the ffice of the City Mayor
and pala to the City Treasurer an annual fee of Three Hundred Pesos ( P 300.00 ) within
one month fuom the date of acquisition.
SECTION 24, Administrative Prouision, -
Possession and/or use of
non-registered air guns shall be subject to confiscation and may only be returned upon
payment of the fine of Three Hundred Pesos (P 300.00 ) in addition to the annual
registraUon fee.
Afticle Thirty-Two - Ambulant Vending Fee.
SECTION 245, fmposition of Fee, -There shall be collected the fullowing ambulant
vending fees for the privilege of selling in designated vending areas within the City of Davao:
Mayor's Vendor Permit per year
Space occupied per sq. m. per day
Wheeled store per sq. m. of space occupied per day............
P 200.00
10.00
25.00
P 400.00
s0.00
Provided however, that a special permit will be secured by seasonal vendors during
special occasions such as Araw ng Dabaw, Kadayawan Festival, City Fiesta, and other
celebrations or similar occasions with the following fees:
Special Permit Fee
Space occupied/sq. m./day
,*ction 246, fime and Manner of Payment, - The City Treasurer is hereby
authorized to assign or designate a collector for this purpose. The vending fee shall be
collected daily.
SECTION 247. Administrative Provisions.
(a) Ambulant vending shall be allowed only in designated places to be
determined by the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod.
(b) Only those vendors permitted by the City Mayor can sell their wares in
designated vending areas. For the purpose of the issuance of annual vendo/s permit, priority
shall be given to those who are residents of Davao City and whose income is in the povefi
line.
(c) No vendor shall be allowed to permanenUy occupy any portion of the
vending sites or to put any permanent structures, the occupancy of a portion of the vending
site shall be on first come first serued basis each day and no person shall be allowed to use
as his quarterc the space authorized for him to vend.

Ord. No. 0291-L7
Aticle Thifty-Thr€€. - Percistent Sidewalk Vendorc or Percistent
Vendorc Fees
SECTION 248. Imposition of fues, - The following fees shall be paid for using
sidewalks, street sides, lands of public dominion, government building and other properties
owned by the government, for business purposes; to include individuals engaged in the
rental of huts, cottages within the shoreline of Davao City without fureshore lease approved
by the Depaflrnent of Environment and Natural Resources ( DENR ).
SECTION 249. Administrative Provision,
(a) Collection of fees under this Afticle does not legalize the stay or use by any
Persistent Sidewalk Vendors or Persistent Vendors in places above-mentioned but only fur
purposes of regulating them while engaged in the business.
(b) Provided, that each vendor shall be responsible for the cleanliness of his area
and dispose of his waste in designated garbage dump area and that they can be demolished,
removed or driven out at anytime when interest of the public so require.
CHAPTER 4. SERVICE FEES
Afticle One. - Secretary's Fees
SECTION 250. fmposition of fua - There shall be collected the fullowing ftes
from every person requesting for copies of official records and documents from the offices of
this city.
A. SECRETARY'S FEE
Amount of Fee
Space Occupied/sq. m.
Wheeled caterers....
(a) For every 100 words or fraction thereof
typewritten (not including the ceftificate
and notation)
(b) Where the copy to be furnished is in printed form.
In whole or in paft, for each page (every additional
page at Twenty Pesos {P 20.00} per page)
(c) For each ceftificate of correctness (with
seal of Office) written on the copy or
attached thereto (with seal of the office
or for every additional page at Ten Pesos
(P 10.00)
(d) For ceftiffing the official act of the City
Judge or other judicial ceftificate with seal
P 5.00/sq.m./day
50.00/day
P 50.00
50.00
s0.00
50.00

SECTION 251. Eremption, - The fees imposed in this Article shall not be collected
for copies furnished to other offices and branches of the government fur official business,
except for those copies required by the Court at the request of the litigant in which Gs,
charges shall be in accordance with the above-mentioned schedule.
SECTION 252. Time and frlanner of Payment - The fues shall be paid to the City
Treasurer at the time $e request, wrttten or otherwise, for the issuance of a copy of any city
record or document is made.
Afticle Two - CITY CryIL REGISTRY FEES
SECTION 253. Imposition of Fees
a. Registration Fee
(e) For certified copies of any paper, records,
decrees, judgment or entry of which any person
is entitled to demand and receive a copy (in
connection with judicial proceedings) for each
page. (with sea! of the office or for every
additional page of Twenty Pesos (P20.00)
(f)
Clearances, ceftifications issued by other
offices not herein specified (plus Twenty Pesos
{P 20.00} for every additional page)
(g)
Photocopy or any other copy produced by
copying machine per page
Birth Certificate:
1. Timely
2. Delayed
Death Certificate:
1. Timely
2. Late registration fee for Death Ceftificate
o After 30 days from death
o After 5 months from death
o After 1 year from death
Marriage Contract:
1. Timely
2. Late
. Within six months from marriage ceremony
. After six months from marriage ceremony
. After 1 year from marriage ceremony
Ord. No. 029L-t7
50.00
s0.00
50.00
FREE
FREE
FREE
100.00
150.00
2s0.00
2s0.00
300.00
3s0.00
400.00

Solemnization Fee
Couft Decrees:
Change of Name in the Bifth Certificate
Correction of entries in the civil registry record
Cancellation of civil registry record
Adoption
Annulment of Marriage
Decree of Absolute Nullity of Marriage
Entry of Judgment (for annul. or dec. of absolute nullity)
Decree of Annulment (A.M. # 02-LL-L0-SC)
Legal Separation
Judicial Recognition of a Foreign Decree
Declaration of Presumptive Death
Judicial Separation of Property
Decree of Guardianship
Decree on Custody of Minors
Judicial Determination of Paternity & Filiation
Aliases
Judicial Naturalization
Other regisfrable court decrees/decisions
Legal Instruments:
Legitimation
Registration of Affidavit to use surname of father
(AUSF) pursuant to RA 9255:
1. For local residents
2. With alien father
Admission of Paternity (Filipino father)
Admission of Paternity (Alien father)
Election of Filipino Citizenship
Marriage settlements
Affidavit of reappearance
Naturalization
Ceftificate of legal capacity to contract marriage
Repatriation of Philippine Citizenship under RA 8171
Other registrable legal instruments
b, Service Fees
o Issuance of Ceftificate of No Record (per copy)
o Issuance of Form t-A,2-A,3-A (w/o annotation)
o Issuance of Form L-A,2-A,3-A (w/ annotation)
Ord. No. 029L-17
100.00
500.00
s00.00
s00.00
500.00
2,500.00
500.00
s00.00
500.00
1,500.00
500.00
1,000.00
500.00
500.00
s00.00
500.00
500.00
3,000.00
500.00
300.00
300.00
700.00
300.00
700.00
2,000.00
300.00
300.00
3,000.00
300.00
700.00
300.00
75.00
75.00
100.00

Ord. No. 0291-17
c. The fees herein specified shall be collected for the issuance of a corresponding
permit or license, to wit:
o Issuance of Certificate for lost or destroyed document (per
copy)
o Issuance of Ceftified Photo copy (w/o annotation)
o Issuance of Certified Photo copy (w/ annotation)
Electronic endorsement to OCRG
Out of town registration
Certificate that the photocopy is a faithful reproduction of the
Original document presented (per copy)
Supplemental Repoft
Fee for other seruices not otherwise herein specified
Marriage application fee
Marriage license fee
Parental ConsenVAdvise (out of town)
Filing Fee:
a. Change of First Name (CFN)
b. Correction of day & month of birth (CCE)
c. Correction of Gender (CCE)
d. Conection of other clerica! errors (CCE)
75.00
75.00
100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00
300.00
200.00
75.00
3,000.00
3,000.00
s00.00
1,000.00
500.00
1,000.00
300.00
100.00 (per copy)
100.00 (per copy)
100.00
100.00
100.00 (per copy)
The fees herein specified shall be collected in accordance with the provisions of
Republic Act No. 9048, otherwise known as the Clerical Error Law:
Transaction
Fees
o Seruice Fee for Migrant Petition on CCE
o Seruice Fee for Migrant Petition on CFN
o Registration fee
o Issuance of form LA,2A,3A with annotation
o Issuance of Certified True Copy with remarks
o Issuance of Ceftificate of Finality
o Certification fee
o Ceftificate that the photocopy is a faithful
reproduction of the original document presented
o Advance endorsement fee
300.00
"In accordance with the expressed provisions of SECTION 4 of RA L0172 amending
SECTION 8 of RA 9048, all fees collected under the immediately preceding paragraph shall
accrue to the City Civil Registrar's Office in the form of a TRUST FUND for the
modernization of the offtce, hiring of new personnel and procurement of supplies subject
to government accounting and auditing rules.
A TRUST FUND ACCOUNT for the City Civil Registrar's Office is hereby created and
established for all fees collected as provided in the immediately preceding paragraph in
relation to RA 9048 as amended by RA t0L72."

Ord. No. 0291-L7
SECTION 254 - Exemptions. - The fees imposed in this Article shall not be
collected in the following cases:
a.) Where the applicant is an indigent, as ceftified by the City Social Services and
Development Office (CSSDO);
b.) Where the party requesting for ceftified true copy of civil registry record, legal
instruments, or court decree, is a government entity or agency or instrumentality
and the document is necessary in the conduct of administrative, judicial or quasijudicial functions;
c.) Where a ceftified true copy of the Certificate of Live Birth is required for enrolment
to the primary level in the public school;
SECTION 255 - Time of Payment. - The fees imposed in this Article shall be paid
to the Office of the City Treasurer before the registration or issuance of the permit,
license, issuance of ceftified true copies of civil registry record or document, or the
rendering of the required service.
Afticle Three,- Fees for Library Seruices
SECTION 256. fmposition of Fees, - There shall be collected for seruices
rendered by the Davao City Library and Information Center, the following fees:
a. Library Fee (library card for in-house users)
b. Additional Fees:
t. Bonowe/s Card (books for take out)
Overdue Book
2. Machine Copy - (short)
(lons)
Internet Seruices:
1. Hard Copy - black (short & long)
- colored (short & long)
2. Internet Fee
a. Service Fee for issuance of ceftified true
copies of documents/file ftom CPDO
P 30.00/annum
P 30.00/annum
1.00/day
P 1.00/page
1.50/page
3.00/page
8.O0/page
10.00/hour
SECTION 257, Time and Manner of Payment - The annual ftes shall be paid
directly to the City Treasurer, while charges less than Twenty-Five Pesos (P25.00) shall be
collected by the authorized personnel from the City Library which shall be remitted to the
City Treasure/s Office every day before the close of office hours br proper accounting and
documentation.
Afticle Four.-Fees for Seruices Catercd by the City Planning &
Development Coordinator? Office
SECTION 258. fmposition of Fees,- There shall be collected for seruices
rendered by the Office of the City Planning and Development Coordinator, this City, the
following fees:
P 2s.00

Ord. No. 0291-L7
b. Data/Information Sheets (RSD)
-For every bond-size copy of indicators, data sheets,
profiles printed in black and white (every additional
page at P 10.00 per page)
-Socio Economic Indicators (average of 40 pages)
-Flyers
c. Map Production (GIS):
-For every shoft bond-size map printer in color
(every additiona! square inch at P 0.60 per sq. in.
-For every short bond-size map printer in black &
white (every additional sq. inch at P 0.30 per sq. inch)
-
25.00
-
300.00
-
10.00
s0.00
20.00
SECTION 259. Time and Manner of Payment - The fees shall be paid to the City
Treasurer at the time of the request, wriften or otherwise, for the issuance of a copy of any
city record or document is made.
Afticle Five, Police Clearance Fee
SECTION 26O. fmposition of Fee, - There shall be paid for each police clearance
ceftificate obtained from the Station Commander of the Philippine National Police of ilris city
the following fees:
Amount of Fee
For employment, scholarship, study grant,
and other purposes not hereunder specified
For change of name
For application for Filipino citizenship
For passpoft or visa application
For firearms permit application
For PLEB clearance
For any alteration made to motor vehicles as to its
body, painting, conversion from one make to
another and the like
100.00
SECTION 261, fime of Payment -The seruice fee provided under this Article shall
be paid to the City Treasurer upon application for police clearance ceftificate.
Afticle Six . - Sanitary Inspection Fee
SECTION 262. fmposition of Fe, - There shall be collected the following annual
fees from each business establishment in this city or house for rent, fur the purpose of
supervision and enforcement of existing rules and regulations and saftty of the public in
accordance with the fullowing schedule:
P
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
25.00
200.00
2,000.00
200.00
400.00
100.00

Ord. No. 029L-L7
B.
A.
Inspection Fee
Operational Permit fee shall be imposed on newly
constructed buildings houses as follows;
1. Residential
2. Commercial
3. Industrial
Financial institution such as banks, pawnshops,
Insurance companies, finance and other investment
Companies, dealers in securities and exchange
a) Main/branch office
b) Every branch
Gasoline Seruice/fi lling stations
Private Hospitals
Medical, Dental and Animal Clinics
Sanitary permit for cleaning of septic vaults, and other
Permits required in connection with public health
sanitation
Dwelling and other spaces for renVlease, hotels, motels,
Apaftels, pension/drive inns, dormitories, lodging or
boarding houses;
1. Hotels per room accommodation
2. Buildings or office/residential space
3. Apaftels, pensions, drive inns, motels per room
accommodation
4. Commercial apaftments per space/unit
5. Residential apaftment per space/unit
6. Dormitories, Iodging, boarding houses per room
accommodation
Institution of Learning, Turorial Schools and other
Similar Establishments
Media Facilities
Telecomm unication Compan ies
1.Main (branch office)
2.Every branch/office
P 500.00
2s0.00
400.00
s00.00
s00 00
200.00
300.00
1500.00
s00.00
200.00
50.00
s0.00
50.00
50.00
s0.00
50.00
s00.00
200.00
1,000.00
500.00
c.
D.
E.
F.
G.
H.
I
)

Ord. No. 029t-L7
M
K.
Electrical and Power Companies
1. Main (branch) office
2. Every branch/office
L.
Peddlers
All Other Business, Industrial, Commercial
Establish ments not specifi cal ly me ntion ed above
1. With an area of one thousand square meters or
above (1,000 sq. m)
2. With an area of five hundred (500) or more but less
than one thousand square meters (1,000 sq. m)
3. With an area of two hundred square meters (200
sq. m) or more but less than five hundred square
meters (500 sq. m)
4. With an are of one hundred or more but less than
two hundred square meters (200 sq. m)
5. With an area of fifly or more but less than one
hundred square meters (100 sq. m)
6. With an area of twenty-five or more but less than
fifty square meters (50 sq. m)
7. Less than twenty-five square meters
Man ufacturers, Prod ucers, fou nd ry Shops, Laboratories,
Privately Owned Markets, Shopping Centers, Talipapa
and Warehouses
Amusement Places such as Theaters, Coliseums, Sauna
Baths, Massage Clinics, Golf Courses, Cockpit Arenas,
Bowling AIleys, Stadiums
Other amusement places not mentioned above
Im pofters/Expofters, Wholesalers, Distri butors, Dea lers
Public eating places such as Restaurants, Refreshment
Parlors, Carenderias, Coffeeflea Shops, and other
Similarly situated establishments
1. with fifty or more personnel
2. with twenty or more but less than fifly personnel
3. with ten or more but less than twenty-five personnel
4. less than ten personnel
1,000.00
500.00
50.00
500.00
300.00
300.00
200.00
200.00
200.00
100.00
1,000.00
1,000.00
600.00
1,000.00
1,000.00
700.00
500.00
s00.00
1,000.00
N
P
a.
R.
S.
Funeral Parlor, Crematorium, Memorial Park
T.
Retailers
250.00
o.

Ord. No. 029t-L7
SECTION 263. Time of Payment - The fees imposed in this Afticle shall be paid to
the City Treasurer upon filing of the application for the sanitary inspection ceftificate with the
City Health Officer and upon renewal of the same every year thereafter within the first
twenty (20) days of January.
SECTION 264. Administrative Provisions
(a) The City Health Officer or his duly authorized representative shall conduct an
annual inspection of all establishments and buildings, and accessories and houses for rent, in
order to determine their adequacy of ventilation, general sanitary conditions and propriety for
habitation.
(b) The City Health Officer shall require evidence of payment of the fee imposed
herein before he issues the sanitary inspection certificate.
Afticle Seven . - Seruice Fees for Health Examination
SECTION 265. Imposition of Fee, - There will be collected the following fees from
any person who is given a physica! examination by the City Health Offtcer or his duly
authorized representative, as required by existing ordinances.
A. CUNICAL SERVICES
1. Anti-Rabies Injection
P
100.00
2. Dental:
a. Oral Prophalylaxis / Permanent Filling
b. Tooth Extraction
3. Injection
4. Nebulization / Suturing / Suture Removal/ Wound Dressing
v
B. MEDICAL CERIFICATES in connection with;
1. Adoption, Annulment of Marriage, Legitimation,
Naturalization, Travel Abroad and other similar purposes
2. Dental, Employment, Insurance, Licensure, School or
Scholarship requirement, and all others not specifically
specified in this Code
3. Health
a. Regular
b. Re-issuance / Late Renewal
C. OTHER REGUI.ATORY DOCUMENTS
1. Annual Supervision Fee for Operation and
Management of Funeral Parlors, Private
Cemetery, Memorial Park
2. Burial Permit Fee
300.00
100.00
30.00
s0.00
300.00
50.00
50.00
100.00
1,000.00
75.00

3. Cremation / Exhumation Permit
4. Transfer Permit
5. Operational Permit
6. Sanitary Inspection Clearance
7. Sanitary Permit
8. Transfer Permit for Food
9. Water Potability Clearance
l0.Issuance / Review of Death Ceftificate
11. Verification of Cash Bond Applicant
TABORATORY FEES:
Bacteriology
Water Analysis
Blood Chemistry
1. Blood Urea Nitrogen
2. Bilirubin (8182)
3. Calcium (Ca++), Potassium (K+), Sodium (Na+)
4. Chloride (Cl-)
5. Cholesterol
6. Fasting Blood Sugar (FBS), 2 Hour Post Prandial
Blood Sugar (2 Hr. PPBS)
7. Electrolyte Panel ( Na+, K+, Ca+++, Cl-)
B. Glycosylated Hemoglobin (HbA1C)
9. High Density Lipoprotein (HDL)
10. Lactate Dehydrogenase
11. Lipid Profile (Cholesterol, Triglyceride, HDL, LDL)
12. Oral Glucose Tolerance Test (OGTT)
13. Random Blood Sugar (RBS)
14. Serum Creatinine
15. Serum Glutamic Oxaloacetic Transminase (SGOT) or
Aspeftate Ami notransferase (ASf)
16. Serum Glutamic furuvic Transminase (SGPT) or
Alanine Aminotransferase (ALT)
17. Serum Uric Acid
18. Sodium (Na+), Potassium (K+)
l9.Triglyceride
Clinical Microscopy
1. Micral Test
2. Pregnancy Test
3. Routine Urinalysis
Hematology
1. Blood Smear for Malarial Parasite (BSMP)
2. Blood Typing (Blood Type), Clotting Time/Bleeding Time
(Cf I gT), Hemog lobi n, Hematocrit
3. Complete Blood Count (CBC)
4. Dengue Rapid Test
5. Filarial Micro Search
Ord. No. 0291-L7
100.00
150.00
50.00
s0.00
200.00
1s0.00
55.00
50.00
s0.00
180.00
180.00
250.00
700.00
150.00
100.00
120.00
sso.00
150.00
600.00
180.00
550.00
570.00
s0.00
120.00
160.00
190.00
190.00
130.00
360.00
200.00
415.00
120.00
40.00
60.00
40.00
120.00
300.00
50.00

6. Platelet Count
7. Prothrombin Time
Hispathology
1. Gram Staining
2. Pap Smear
3. Potassium Hydroxide (KOH)
4. Wet Mount
Parasitology
1. Fecalysis
2. Kato-Katz
3. Occult Blood / Stool Concentration Method
Serology
1. Hepatitis B Suface Antigen (HBs Ag)
2. Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HfV) Test
3. Thyroglobuliln 3 CR), Thyroglubulin 4 fl-4),
Thyroid Stimulating Hormone (TSH)
4. Treponema palladium haemagglutination (IPHA)/Rapid
Plasma Reagin (RPR)
5. WidalTest
Other Tests
1. Drug Test
2. Electrocardiogram (ECG)
3. Ceruical, Urethral, Vaginal Smear
4. Seminalysis
5. Sputum Microscopy
D. MEDICOLEGAL - LEGAL SERVICES
1. Medico-legal Examination
2. Autopsy of Cadaver
3. Autopsy Reduced into Writing
4. Interuiew, Physical Examination and Issuance of Medical
Certificate to alleged crime suspect for Admission to
Davao City Jail and DCPO Rehabilitation Center
5. Issuance / Review of Death Certificate
6. Gender Exam Ceftification
Ord. No. 029L-17
80.00
70.00
50.00
s0.00
50.00
s0.00
40.00
60.00
80.00
180.00
450.00
600.00
180.00
300.00
225.00
200.00
60.00
180.00
80.00
100.00
s00.00
100.00
50.00
50.00
300,00
SECTION 266, Time of Payment, - The fee shall be paid to the City Treasurer
before the physical examination is made and the medical ceftificate is issued.
SECTION 267. Administrative Provisions,
(a) Individuals engaged in an occupation or working in the following
establishments, are hereby required to undergo physical and medical examination before
they can be employed and once every six months (6) thereafter.

Ord. No. 029L-L7
1. Food establishments - establishments where food or drinks are manufactured,
processed, stored, sold or seryed.
2. Public swimming or bathing places.
3. Dance schools, dance halls and nightclubs - including dance instructors,
hostess, cooks, baftenders, waitresses, etc.
4. Tonsorial and beauty establishments - including employees of barber shops,
beauty parlors, hairdressing and manicuring establishments, exercise gyms and
figure slenderizing saloons, facial centers, aromatherapy establishments, etc.
5. Massage clinics and sauna bath establishments - including masseurs, massage
clinic/sauna bath attendants, etc.
6. Hotels, motels and apartments, lodging, boarding or tenement houses, and
condominiums.
(b) Owners, managers or operators of the establishments shall see to it that their
employees who are required to undergo physical and medical examinations have been issued
the necessary medical ceftificates.
(c) The City Health Officer shall keep a record of physical and other health
examinations conducted, and the copies of medical ceftificates issued indicating the name of
the applicant, the date and the purpose for which the examination was made.
(d) The City Health Officer is hereby empowered to give free laboratory
examination to indigent patients and examination needed by the government such as for
government insurance requirements for appointments and application for positions and civil
service examinations.
SECTION 268. Penalty. - A fine of Two Hundred Pesos (P200.00) shall be paid by
the owner, manager or operators of the establishment for each employee found to be
without the necessary health ceftificates.
Afticle Eight. - Social Seruices Fees
SECTION 269, fmposition of Fees, - There shall be imposed the followlng fees
to be paid to the City Treasurer prior to the conduct of marriage:
A. Marriage Counseling Seminar
1. Regular
2. Foreigner Spouse
3. Expedited
200.00
1500.00
2s00.00
B. Marriage Counseling Ceftificate
s0.00
However, couples declared and ceftified to by the City Social Seruices and
Development Office (CSSDO) as indigent shall be exempted from the payment of said
fees.
SECTION 27O, Administrative Provisions, - Any couple who decides to get
married shall first attend a marriage counseling seminar to be conducted by the City Social
Services and Development Office (CSSDO).

Afticle Nine, - City Tourism Fees
SECTION 271. fmposition of Fees, - There shall be imposed the following fees
to be paid to the City Treasurer:
One Time
Annual
Registration Fee Regulatory Fee
1.) Hotel
a.) Deluxe class
b.) First class
c.) Standard class
d.) Economy class
e.) Budget class
2.) Resoft
a.) Class \AAA"
b.) Class "[4"
c.) Class "A"
d.) Special Interest Resofts
3.) Other Types of Tourist Accommodations
a.) Apartel
b.) Tourist Inn
c.) Motel
d.) Pension House
e.) Homestay Sites
4.) Travel & Tours
5.) Tour Guides
6.) Tourist Transport Vehicle
a.) Bus
b.) Coaster
c.) Van
d.) Car
e.) Jeepney
f.) Tricycle
7.) Tourist Sea Transport
a.) Pumpboat
b.) Sea Vessel
c.) Motorized Boats
8.) Organizer of Professiona! Congress /
Exhibit Organizers
9.) Souvenir Shops
a.) 1't Class
b.) 2no Class
c.) 3'd Class
10.) Other Related Tourism Activities
1 1.) CBST Proponents
P 10,000.00
8,000.00
5,000.00
3,000.00
8,000.00
5,000.00
3,000.00
1,500.00
1,000.00
1,000.00
1,000.00
1,000.00
1,000.00
s00.00
500.00
s00.00
Ord. No.029L-L7
P 3,020.00
2,720.00
2,500.00
2,220.00
920.00
820.00
720.00
1,070.00
1,120.00
1,120.00
1,120.00
1,120.00
1,120.00
1,325.00
370.00
500.00
s00.00
3,000.00
2,000.00
1,000.00
500.00
275.00
165.00
120.00
100.00
1,000.00
1,120.00
1,120.00
720.00
3,220.00
2,220.00
t,220.00
570,00
l\

12.) sPA
a.)Destination/Hotel
b.)Day Spa
13.) Restaurant
a.) 444
b.) AA
c.) A
2,000.00
1,000.00
1,000.00
800.00
s00.00
Ord. No. A29L-t7
100 per bed/
cubicle +300
920.00
820.00
720.00
Afticle Ten - City Assessor's Fees
SECTION 272. fmposition of Fees. There shall be collected the following fees from
every person requesting for copies of official records and documents from the Office of the
City Assessor, to wit:
TYPE OF DOCUMENT
AMOUNT OF FEE
Afticle Eleven - Polluter's Fee
SECTION 273. fmposition of Fees, The rate of Polluter's Fee are as follows:
Smoking Area
Rate Per Annum
a. Ceftification Fee
Total Landholdings
No Landholdings
No Improvement
b. Certified True Copy of Documents
c. Ceftified True Copy of Maps
Coupon Bond Size (letter and/or legal-sized)
43 Book Paper (42cmx29.7 cm)
SECTION Map Size (35cm x 34 cm)
Barangay Map
d. Service Fee
Tax Map Verification, Transfer of Assessment,
Subdivision, Segregation 8y'or Consolidation
Less than 10 sq.m
Over 10 sq,m but less than 20 sq.m.
Over 20 sq.m. but less that 50 sq.m
Over 50 sq.m
P100.00
100.00
100.00
200.00
300.00
500.00
s0.00
P 1,000.00/sq.m
1,250.00/sq.m.
1,500.00/sq.m.
2,000.00/sq.m.
CHAPTER 5. CITY CHARGES
Afticle One. - Fishery Rentals, Fees and Charges

Ord. No. 029L-L7
SECTION 274. Fishery Rentals, Fees and Chatges, - This City shall have the
exclusive authority to grant the following fishery privileges within its City Waters and impose
rentals, fees, or charges therefrom:
(a) To erect fish corrals, oyster, mussel, or other aquatic beds or bangus fiy areas.
(b) To gather, take or catch bangus fiy, prawn fry or kawag-kawag or fry of other
species and fish from city waters by nets, traps or other fishing gears. However, marginal
fishermen shall be exempt from any rentals, charge or any other imposition whatsoever.
(c) To issue license for the operation of fishing vessels of three (3) tons or less,
for which purpose the council is empowered to promulgate, subject to the approval of the
Secretary of Agriculture and the Secretary of Environment and Natural Resources, rules
and regulations, regarding the issuance of such license to qualified applicants under
existing Iaw.
SECTION 275.
Grant of Fishery RighB by Public Auction, {xclusive
fishery privileges to erect fish, corrals, oyster mussel of aquatic beds or "bangus" fiy areas
and to take or catch "bangus" fiy or "kawag-kawag" or fry of other species of fish for
propagation shall be awarded to the highest bidder in a public auction to be conducted by a
committee upon authorization of the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod.
However, duly registered organizations and cooperatives of marginal fishermen shall
have the preferential right to such fishery privileges without being required to undergo the
bidding. In the absence of such organizations and cooperatives or upon failure to exercise
their preferential right, other pafties may pafticipate in the said public bidding.
For this purpose, there is hereby created a committee to conduct the public auction to
be constituted as follows:
(a) The Mayor or his duly authorized representative as Chairperson;
(b) The Chairpersons of the Committee on Agriculture & Committee on Finance,
Ways & Means & Appropriations, Members of the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod to
be designated by said body;
(c) The City Treasurer.
The Committee shall adveftise the call for sealed bids for the leasing of a zone or
zones of city waters in public auction for two (2) consecutive weeks in the bulletin board of
City Hall. If no bids are received within two (2) weeks, such notice shall be posted for
another two (2) weeks. If after said two (2) notices for the grant of exclusive fishery rights
through public auction, there are no interested bidders, the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod shall
grant the rights within the definite area or portion of the city waters to any interested
individual upon payment of a license fee fixed herein.
The notice adveftising the call for bids shall indicate the date and time when such bids
shall be flled with the City Treasurer.
An application to participate in the public bidding shall be submitted to the City Mayor
in a form prescribed thereof. Upon submitting a sealed bid, a person shall accompany such
bid with a deposit of at least Five Thousand Pesos (P5,000.00) which amount shall be
deducted from the first rental of the person should the bid be awarded to him.

Page t67
Ord. No. 0291-17
At the time and place designated in the notice, the Committee sitting en banc shall
open all the bids and award the lease to the qualified bidder offering the highest bid. The
lease shall be executed within ten (10) days after the award is made by a committee and if
the successful bidder refuses to accept, or fails or neglects to execute the lease within such
time, his deposit shall be forfeited to the city government, in such case, another bidding shall
be held in the manner provided above.
The deposits of the unsuccessful bidders shall be returned upon the execution of the
lease contract by the successful bidder or before the calling of another bid.
At the time and place designated in the notice, the Committee sitting en banc shall
open all the bids and award the lease to the qualified bidder offering the highest bid. The
lease shall be executed ten (10) days after the award is made by the Committee and should
the successful bidder refuse to accept, or fails or neglects to execute the lease within such
time, his deposit shall be fofeited to the City Government. In such case, another bidding
shall be held in the manner herein prescribed,
SECTION 276.
Duration of Lease,- The grant of lease of fishery rights
through public auction shall be for a period of one (1) year.
SECTION 277, Zonification of City Waterc. - The City Waters of this City are
hereby divided and classified into zones for purposes of granting a lease or exclusive
fishery rights through public auction as prescribed in SECTION 275, as follows:
Zone 1
Zone 2
From Dumoy to Binugao shoreline (south)
From Tibungco to Lasang shoreline (nofth)
SECTION 278, fmposition of Fees,
(a) Fees for the Exclusive Privilege of Establishing Fish Corals, Shallow Water
Fish Shelter "Payao" and Cages, Culture Beds, or Catching "Bangus" Fry or
fry of other species.
Amount of Fee per Annum
l.Operation of fishponds (per hectare)
2.Oyster and Other Shelled Mollusk Culture Beds
(per 100 sq. m. or a fraction thereof)
3.Fish Cages (per 100 sq.m. or a fraction thereof)
4.Seaweed Cultu relFarming
(per 100m culture line)
S.Catching "bangus" fry or "kawag-kawag"
6.Fish corrals/Fishpens/Stationary Lift Net in inland fresh water
7.Fish corrals/Fishpens/Stationary Lift Net in coastal waters
B.Shallow Fish Shelter "Payao" (per unit)
(a) Fees for Licenses (General Schedule of License Fees):
Fisherman's License
P 1,000.00
1,000.00
1,000.00
20.00
500.00
500.00
s00.00
200.00
50.00

Ord. No. 0291-L7
(b) Fees for Fish Transoort (From Davao Citv to any point outside Davao Otv
Fee Per Set Kg. Wt.
Fishing Boat/Banca Reg istration :
Motorized
Non-Motorized
1. Fresh Frozen Fish & Fishery Products
(& fraction thereof)
2. Preserued/Processed fish, (iced, frozen,
salted, dried, smoked patis, bagoong, etc)
3. Sea Cucumber/Balatan
4. Dried Seaweed
5. Bangus fry or other species
6. Bangus fingerlings or other species
7. Trocha shell (smooth, rough, male & female)
(more than 60 mm)
8. Kapis Shell (more than 80 mm)
9. Green Snail Shell
10. Empty Shells of non-prohibited species
11. Live Fish and Other Aquatic Species
75.00
s0.00
P
200.00/ton
200.00/ton
(& fraction thereof)
200.00/ton
200.0O/ton
30.00/thousand
50.0O/thousand
200.00/ton
200.0O/ton
200.00/ton
20.00/100k].
50.00/thousand
SECTION 279. Privilege of Residents to Take Fish in City Waters, - Any
person who is not a grantee of license or privilege to engage in commercial fishing is
hereby allowed to fish for domestic use, in every city water for as long as no communal
fishery therein is yet established; Provided, that such fishing shall not take place within
two hundred (200) meters from a fish corral licensed by this City; and that such fish
caught under this privilege shall not be sold. Provided further, that such fishing shall
obserue the prohibitions as prescribed in SECTION 282 of this Code.
SECTION 280. Time and Manner of Payment,
(a) The annual rental for the lease shall be paid in advance. For the initial year
of the lease, the rental shall be paid at the time all the necessary documents granting the
lease are executed, and the subsequent installments within the first twenty (20) days after
the anniversary date of the grant of such lease. The deposit made by the successful
bidder accompanying the sealed bid shall be applied against the rental due from him.
The SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod shall set aside not more than one-fifth (U5) of the
area earmarked for the gathering of fry, as may be designated by the Bureau of Fisheries
& Aquatic Resources as government "bangus" fry reseruation.
(b) The license fee for the grant of exclusive fishery rights in the City waters for
at least the corresponding current quafter shall be paid in advance.
(c) The license fees for the privilege to catch fish from City Waters with nets,
traps, and other fishing gears and the operation of fishing vessels shall be paid upon
application for a license and within the first twenty (20) days of January of every year for
subsequent renewal thereof.

Ord. No. 029L-L7
SECTION 281. Administrative Provisions,
(a) A licensee of other localities shall not fish within the city waters of this city
without first securing the necessary permit from the City Mayor and paying the
corresponding fee to the City Treasurer.
(b) No fish net without eyelet or the mesh size of which is at least three (3)
centimeters shall be used in these City Waters.
(c) Failure to pay the rental of license fees for fishery rights for two (2)
consecutive years shall cause automatic cancellation of said fishing rights.
SECTION 282. Prohibitions and Penalties.
(1) Fishing Wthout A License/Permit. It shall be unlawfu! for any person,
whether natural or juridical, to engage in any fishing activity or operate any fishing
boaVbanca within the City Waters without the corresponding license/permit issued by the
City Mayor through the City Agriculturist's Office. The corresponding penalties shall be
imposed on the following violation/s:
a.
Fishing in City Waters without license/permit:
First Offense P 500.00 fine and Confiscation of catch
Second Offense
P 1,000.00 fine, Confiscation of catch, and
Suspension of license for two (2) months
Third Offense
P 2,000.00 fine, 2 months Imprisonment,
Confiscation of catch and fishing paraphernalia
and Revocation of license
b.
Engaging in Commercial Fishing within city waters:
First Offense
P 2,000.00 fine, Confiscation of catch and
Suspension of license for six (6) months
Second Offense
P 3,000.00 fine, Confiscation of catch, and
Suspension of license for one (1) year
Third Offense
P 5,000.00 fine, 1 year Imprisonment,
Confiscation of catch and fishing paraphernalia
and Perpetual Cancellation/Revocation of license
c.
Engaging in Recreational/Sport fishing without a license/permit:
First Offense P 500.00 fine and Confiscation of catch
P 1,000.00 fine, Confiscation of catch, and
Suspension of license for two (2) months
Second Offense

Ord. No. 0291-17
Third Offense
P 2,000.00 fine, 2 months Imprisonment,
Confiscation of catch and fishing paraphernalia
and Revocation of license
d
Operating an aquaculture or mariculture facility without an operator's
license/permit:
Fine P 5,000.00
(2) Violations of the Terms and Conditions of a License/Permit. Any person,
whether natural or juridical, who violates the terms and/or conditions of the fishing
license/permit is liable for a fine of Five Thousand Pesos (P 5,000.00) or imprisonment for
not less than six (6) months but not more than one (1) year and cancellation of
License/Permit upon the discretion of the couft.
(3) Fishing Wthin City Waters.
a. Fishing by Unregistered Percon/Fisherfolk - It shall be unlawful for any person
who is not registered with the Registry of City Fishefolk to engage in any kind of fishing
activity within the City Waters. Any person who violates this provision shall be liable for a
fine of Five Hundred Pesos (P500.00).
b. Fishing by Unregistered Boat/Banca - It shall be unlawful for any fishing
boat/banca, not registered with the Registry of City Fishing Boat/Banca, to engage in any
kind of fishing activity within the City Waters. The boat/banca operator/owner who
violates this provision shall be Iiable for a fine in the amount of One Hundred Pesos
(P100.00) for non-motorized fishing boaVbanca and Three Hundred Pesos (P 300.00) for
motorized fishing boat/banca.
(4) Failure to Carry License/Permit.The failure to carry a copy of his fishing
license/permit on board the fishing boat/banca, shall render the offender liable for a fine
of Five Hundred Pesos (P500.00).
(5) Fishing in Prohibited Areas. It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in
fishing in any fishery reserve, refuge and sanctuary within the City Waters. A person who
violates this provision shall be punished with imprisonment of six (6) months or a fine of
Five Thousand Pesos (P5,000.00), foffeiture of the catch and cancellation of fishing
permifllicense or both, at the discretion of the court.
(6) Violation of Temporary Ban or Closure. It shall be unlawful for any person,
whether or not possessing a valid fishing license to engage in any fishing activity in
violation of a temporary ban or closure duly declared by the City Mayor. A person who
violates this provision shall be liable as follows:
First Offense
P 2,000.00 fine, Confiscation of catch and
Suspension of license for six (6) months
P 3,000.00 fine, Confiscation of catch, and
Suspension of license for one (1) year
Second Offense

Ord. No. 0291-t7
Third Offense
P 5,000.00 fine, 1 year Imprisonment,
Confiscation of catch and fishing paraphernalia
and Perpetual Cancellation/Revocation of license
(7) Taking of Prohibited Species. It shall be unlawful for any person to take
attempt to take or have in his possession any fish and fishery/aquatic species as listed in
the Convention of the International Trade of Endangered Species (CITES). Anyone who
violates this provision shall be liable for a fine of Five Thousand Pesos (P5,000.00) for
each fish species or aquatic organism that has been taken, one (1) year imprisonment,
confiscation of the catch and fishing paraphernalia in favor of the City Government, and
perpetual cancellation/revocation of license.
(8) Use of Adive Gear Within City Waterc. It shall be unlawful for any person or
boaVbanca to use active gear within the City Waters as provided for under the
Comprehensive Fisheries Code of Davao City, Ordinance No. 093-08. Violation of this
provision shall be liable as follows:
First Offense
P 2,000.00 fine, Confiscation of catch and
Suspension of license for six (6) months
Second Offense
P 3,000.00 flne, Confiscation of catch, and
Suspension of license for one (1) year
Third Offense
P 5,000.00 fine, 1 year Imprisonment,
Confiscation of catch and fishing paraphernalia
and Perpetual Cancellation/Revocation of license
The lists of active gears are listed herein;
1. Muro - ami
2. Scarelines
3. Trawl
4. Purse Seine
5. Danish Seine
Ring Net
Drive-in net
Round Haul Seine
Motorized push net
. Bagnet
(9) Use of Fine Mesh or Any Other Prohibited Net. It shall be unlawful for any
person to use a net with a mesh size of less than three (3) cms. provided, however, that
this prohibition shall not apply to the catching of the following species of fish: padas,
bangus fry, sugpo fry, banak fry, glass eels/elvers, hipon, marine aquarium/ornamental
fishes; and other species which by nature are small but mature such as, but not limited to,
alamang, tabios/sinarapan, dilis, dulong, olan-olan and snails. Violation of this provision
shall render the offender liable as follows:
6.
7.
B.
9.
- Serosca
- Galdgad, Norway
- Pangulong
- Hulbot-hulbot, Likisan, Liba-liba,
Palisot, Patangko Bira-bira, Buli-buli,
Hulahoop, Zipper, Lampornas,
- Kubkob, Pangulong, Kalansi
- Pa-aling/Kayakas
- Sapyaw/Lawag
- Sudsod
- Basnig, Tapay-tapay
First Offense
P 500.00 fine and Confiscation of catch

Page L72
Ord. No. 0291-L7
Second offense
P 1,000.00 fine, Confiscation of catch, and
Suspension of license for two (2) months
P 2,000.00 fine, 2 months Imprisonment,
Confiscation of catch and fishing paraphernalia
and Revocation of license
Third offense
10) Use of compressor in fishing. It shall be unlawful for any person to use
compressor in fishing within City Waters. Violation of this provision shall render the
offender liable as follows:
First Offense
P 2,000.00 fine, Confiscation of catch and
Suspension of license for six (6) months
Second Offense
P 3,000.00 fine, Confiscation of catch, and
Suspension of license for one (1) year
Third Offense
P 5,000.00 fine, 1 year Imprisonment,
Confiscation of catch and fishing paraphernalia
and Perpetual Cancellation/Revocation of license
(11) Fishing using explosives, noxious or poisonous substances, and/or electricity.
It shall be unlawful for any person to catch, take or gather fish or any fishery species
within City Waters with the use of explosives, noxious or poisonous substances, and/or
electricity. Anyone who violates this provision shall be liable to a fine of Five Thousand
Pesos (P5,000.00), one (1) year imprisonment, confiscation of the catch and fishing
paraphernalia in favor of the City Government, and perpetual cancellation/revocation of
license,
(12) Construction of Fish Pens, Cages and Traps in Prohibited Areas. It shall be
unlawful for any person, whether or not in possession of a valid fishing license, to
construct fish pens, cages, or traps in City Waters, or in a manner which obstructs safe
and convenient navigation, the flow and ebb of tides, or the migration paths of fish and
aquatic species. Violation of this provision shall render the offender liable as follows:
First Offense P 2,000.00 fine, Confiscation of catch and
Suspension of license for six (6) months
Second Offense
P 3,000.00 fine, Confiscation of catch, and
Suspension of license for one (1) year
Third Offense
P 5,000.00 fine, one (1) year Imprisonment,
Confiscation of catch and fishing paraphernalia
and Perpetual Cancellation/Revocation of license
A flsh pen, cage, or trap constructed or deployed in violation of this SECTION may be
removed or demolished by the City Mayor through the CAO for being a public nuisance,
after due notice and demand to the owner or operator thereof to voluntarily remove or
demolish the same within fifteen (15) days from receipt of the notice and demand. This
shall be without prejudice to subsequent prosecution, and reimbursement for expenses
incurred in removing or demolishing the prohibited structures.

Ord. No. 029L-L7
(13) Fishing by means of "muro-ami" and the like. The use of muro-ami and any
of its variations and the like is prohibited within the city waters. Violation of this provision
shall render the operator/owner liable as follows:
First Offense
P 2,000.00 fine, Confiscation of catch and
Suspension of license for six (6) months
Second Offense
P 3,000,00 fine, Confiscation of catch, and
Suspension of license for one (1) year
Third Offense
P 5,000.00 fine, one (1) year Imprisonment,
Confiscation of catch and fishing paraphernalia
and Perpetual Cancellation/Revocation of license
(14) Non-compliance with Color Coding. It shall be unlawful for a fishing
boat/banca duly licensed by the City Mayor, which does not comply with the prescribed
color-coding scheme of the City. The operator/owner shall be liable with the following
penalties:
First Offense P 500.00 fine and Confiscation of catch
Second Offense
P 1,000.00 fine, Confiscation of catch, and
Suspension of license for two (2) months
Third Offense
P 2,000.00 fine, 2 months Imprisonment,
Confiscation of catch and fishing paraphernalia
and Revocation of license
(15) Failure to Secure Auxiliary Invoice. Any person transporting fish and
fishery/aquatic products from the City to its point of destination without auxiliary invoice
shall render such person liable to a fine of One Thousand Pesos (P1,000.00).
(16) Abandonment of Fishing Gear. It shall be unlawful for any person to
abandon his/her fishing gear or aquaculture/mariculture facility within the City Waters for
a period of thifi (30) days. Violation of this provision shall render the person liable to a
fine of One Thousand Pesos (P1, 000.00).
(17) Illegal Use of Superlights, The use of Superlights with the total power
output of more than two hundred (200) watts shall be prohibited within the City Waters.
Violation of this provision shall render the offender liable to a fine of Five Thousand Pesos
(P5,000.00), one (1) year imprisonment, confiscation of the catch and fishing
paraphernalia in favor of the City Government, and perpetual cancellation/revocation of
license.
(18) Cutting or Clearing of Mangroves. It shall be unlawful for any person to cut
or clear any mangrove areas for the purpose of turning the same into fishponds or for any
other purpose. Violation of this provision shall render the offender liable as follows:
P 2,000.00 fine, Confiscation of catch and
Suspension of license for six (6) months
First Offense

Ord. No. 029t-t7
Second Offense
P 3,000.00 fine, Confiscation of catch, and
Suspension of license for one (1) year
Third Offense
P 5,000.00 fine, one (1) year Imprisonment,
Confiscation of catch and fishing paraphernalia
and Perpetual Cancellation/Revocation of license
(19) Obstruction of Fishery Officer. It shall be unlawful for any person to
obstruct, hinder, or prevent the performance of the duties of a duly-accredited/Deputized
Fishery Officer as provided herein. Violation of this provision shall render the offender
liable to a fine of One Thousand Pesos (P1,000.00.)
(20) Prosecution Under National Law. Where a person commits an act which is
punishable under the provisions of this Ordinance and the Fisheries Code and other
related laws, the CAO shall have the option to determine the appropriate complaint to be
filed, as well as the proper forum where such complaint shall be lodged. Such a person
may be prosecuted for as many offenses as may arise from the same act, unless the
defense of double jeopardy becomes available and is raised in a proper time and forum.
(21) Injundion as Part of Penalty. Where a person is convicted of an offense
under this Ordinance, in addition to any punishment imposed, the couft may, having
regard to the nature of the offense and the circumstances surrounding its commission,
make an order containing any one or more of the following prohibitions, directions or
requirements:
a. Prohibiting the person from doing any act or engaging in any activity that may, in
the opinion of the court, result in the continuation or repetition of the offense;
b. Directing the person to take any action which the court considers appropriate to
remedy or avoid any harm to any fish, fishery or fish habitat that resulted to or may result
from the commission of the offense;
c. Directing the person to pay the City an amount of money as compensation, in
whole or in paft thereof, for the cost of any remedial or preventive actions taken by or
caused to be taken on behalf of the City as a result of the commission of the offense;
d. Directing the person to peform community seryice in accordance with any
reasonable conditions that may be specified in the order;
e. Directing the person to post a bond or pay to the city government an amount of
money the court considers appropriate for the purpose of ensuring compliance with any
prohibition, direction, or requirement of the order;
f. Requiring the person to comply with any other conditions that the court considers
appropriate for securing the person's good conduct and for preventing the person from
repeating the offense or committing other offenses prescribed by this Ordinance.
(22) Collection of Fishery/Fees, Charges, Rentals and Penalties. The City
Treasurer's Office (CfO) is hereby authorized to collect fees, charges, rentals and
penalties incurred in all fishery activities within the City.

Ord. No. 029L-L7
SECTION 283. Administrative Sanctions and Indemnity,
(1) Innate Value of Fishery and Aquatic Resources of the City. The fishery and
aquatic resources of the City are natural resources which directly sustain the constituents
of the City by providing subsistence, livelihood, and the foundation for many local
businesses. As such, they are valuable resources of the City for which compensation is
required in case of damages as well as costs of rehabilitation of the habitat or resource
arising from acts violating this Afticle.
(2) Imposition of Fines and Penalties. The imposition of fines and penalties as
punishment for violation of the provisions of this Article is without prejudice to
administrative sanctions which may be imposed upon an offender for the purpose of fully
or paftially recovering the loss in revenue and/or cost incurred by the City Government on
account of the violation, and indemnity to compensate for the loss of, damage to, and/or
costs of rehabilitation of the fishery and aquatic resources of the City. Such sanctions
and/or indemnity shall be determined by the CAO and substantiated by records and
receipts copies of which shall be furnished to the offender.
(3) Administrative Investigation The CAO is hereby authorized to conduct
investigation and impose administrative sanctions and indemnity as provided hereon, by
any person apprehended within the City Waters for violating any provision of this Article.
Such investigation shall be concluded within fifteen (15) days from the time the case is
filed. Failure of the respondent to appear at an administrative investigation, appropriate
legal charges shall immediately be filed before the regular courts.
(4) Contested Cases. If the decision of the CAO is contested by the offender,
the CAO shall form an Arbitral Committee comprised of three (3) members within seven
(7) days from rendition of its decision. The CAO and the offender shall each choose one
member from respected citizens of the City who are of known probity, integrity, and good
standing, while the third member shall be chosen jointly from the Committee on
Agriculture and Food of the Sanggunian. The contested case shall then be fonruarded to
the Arbitral Committee for decision within fifteen (15) days from receipt thereof. The
decision of the Arbitral Committee shall be final and unappealable.
(5) Impoundment of fishing boat/banca/vessel and gear. The fishing
boat/banca/vessel or gear used in committing violation of this Ordinance shall be
impounded by the City, through the CAO, pending resolution of an administrative
investigation against the offender. The offender shall be issued Receipts for the items
impounded, and shall bear the actual costs of storage and upkeep of the
boat/banca/vessel and/or gear while it is under impoundment. Prior to resolution of the
administrative investigation, the same shall not be released unless a security bond in the
amount of at least ten percent (10o/o) of the fair market value of such boaVbanca/vessel
or gear, are paid or deposited with the City Government through the CAO, to answer for
any administrative sanctions or indemnity that may be imposed, provided, that items
which are inherently illegal, such as dynamite, noxious and poisonous substances, and
electro fishing gear, among others, shall not be released except upon lawful order of the
court before which the criminal case is pending. Provided fufther, that should the
offender be found guilty of the offense, the inherently illegal items shall be disposed of or
destroyed.

Ord. No. 029L-L7
(6) Unlicensed fishing activities. Any person found to have violated the
provisions of this Article by undeftaking any fishing activity without the appropriate
license/permit shall be required to pay the amount of the license/permit and other
regulatory fees plus a fine of One Thousand Pesos (P1,000.00).
(7) Revocation of license/permit. Any person found to have violated the terms
and conditions of a valid license/permit in his favor shall be required to surrender the
same to the CAO, which shall thereafter revoke the license/permit for the remainder of the
term. Such license/permit shall not be renewed unless the licensee has paid all
administrative sanctions and indemnity that may have been imposed for the violation.
(8) Damage to Habitat. Any person found to have engaged in any act known to
cause damage to the fragile habitat of fish and fishery/aquatic resources, shall pay the
City Government the existing charges provided for under Fees and Charges under the
Utilization of Natural Resources such as Coral Reef, Seagrass Bed, Mangrove Area and Fish
Refuge/Sanctuary, hereunder:
Habitat Indemnity
Coral Reef Area
Seagrass Bed
Mangrove Area
Fish Refuge/Sanctuary
P 5,000.00/ha.
5,000.00/ha.
5,000.00/ha.
5,000.00/ha.
(9) Discharging of Deleterious/Poisonous Substances & Aquatic Pollutants. It
shall be unlaMul for any person to discharge deleterious/poisonous substances and
aquatic pollutants into bodies of City Waters. Violation of this provision shall render the
offender liable to a fine of Five Thousand Pesos (P5,000.00), indemnity of actual cost of
damage/s and without prejudice to the filing of charges provided for under related rules
and regulations.
(10) Other sanctions and/or indemnity. The City Mayor may prescribe other
administrative sanctions or indemnity by means of an executive order, provided, that the
same shall have been subjected to consultations with the CFARMC.
SECTION 284.
ApplicabiliU of Pertinent Provisions of Laws, - All existing
laws, rules and regulations governing municipal waters and municipal fisheries are hereby
adopted as paft of this Afticle.
Afticle Two. - Rentals of Personal and Real Propefties
Owned by the City
SECTION 285. Rates of Rental Fees, - The rates of rental fees for the use of real
and personal properties of this city such as lands and/or buildings located in commercial,
industrial, residential, and in other areas, vehicles, equipments, and other propefties that
may be acquired after the promulgation of this Ordinance, shall be determined by the City
Mayor upon approval of the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod.

Ord. No. 029t-L7
Electrical, power, or telecommunication companies that are erecting electrical and
telecommunication posts, towers and the like in city streets and lands owned by the City
Government of Davao within its territorial jurisdiction shall be charged a lease or rental fee
of Two Hundred Pesos (P200.00) per post per month.
SECTION 285. Time of Payment, -The fees imposed herein shall be paid to the
City Treasurer or his duly authorized representative, before the use or occupancy of the
property.
Article Three. - Seruice Charge for Garbage Collection
SECTION 287. Juridiction, -The provision of this Article shall be applicable
within the entire territory and jurisdiction of the City of Davao and shall be enforced by the
City Environment and Natural Resources Officer.
SECTION 288, Areas of Collection and Disposal,
The areas of collection and disposal of garbage and other refuse shall include the
Poblacion of the City of Davao and those covered by the barrios, sitios, subdivisions,
settlements, or group of buildings, the feasibility of operation of the service of which shall be
determined by the City Environment and Natural Resources Office duly approved by the City
Mayor. For the purpose of this Article, the following are the garbage collection areas:
1. Davao City Poblacion Streets
2. MacAfthur Highway, from Generoso Bridge to Lizada, Toril
3. Toril Poblacion Streets
4. New Matina, S.I.R.
5. Ecoland Subdvision
6, Juna Subdivision
7. DBP Subdivision
B. Lanzona Subdivision
9. GSIS Village, Matina
10. Talomo Poblacion Street and its outlying Sitios
11. Matina Aplaya, Pangi
12. Catalunan Grande
13. Davao-Bukidnon Road
14. Catalunan Pequefio
15. Mintal Poblacion
16. Calinan, Poblacion Street
17. Baguio District Poblacion only
18. Bo. Obrero Street
19. Buhangin District & its outlying sitios/subdivision/nofth highway
20. Agdao District and its outlying sitios
21. Jose P. Laurel Avenue
22. Sasa Poblacion Streets, including Airpoft and Whaf road
23. Panacan Highway/Relocation Areas
24. libungco Poblacion
25. Bunawan Poblacion
26. Other subdivisions/areas seruiced by garbage trucks.

Ord. No. 029L-L7
SECTION 289. Large and Unusual Quantities or Rubbish, Removal and
Additional Fee Required. - Any person who shall generate more than Three cubic
meter (3 cu m) or other large or unusual quantities of garbage such as old dilapidated
furnitures, appliances, construction debris/waste, eafthmound, food waste and the like
shall be charged an additional garbage collection fee in the amount of Five Thousand
Pesos (P5,000.00) for the first fifteen (15) kilometers and an additional amount of One
Hundred Fifty Pesos (P150.00) for every succeeding kilometer per truckload or a fraction
thereof.
SECTION 290. Special Collection of Refuse, Permit and Additional Fee
Required. - Upon previous permits obtained from the Office of City Mayor, collection of
refuse from within the compound or premises of any industrial, commercial business or
other establishment may be allowed when it is convenient due to the nature of the refuse
or beyond the mode of collection as prescribed by CiW Ordinance No. 0361-10, subject,
however, to the condition that such special collection seruice shall be allowed only when
applied for and the pafi or parties concerned shall make an additional seruice fee in the
amount of Five Thousand Pesos (P5,000.00) for the first fifteen (15) kilometers and an
additional amount of One Hundred Fifty Pesos (P 150.00) for every succeeding kilometer
per truckload or a fraction thereof in addition to the fee schedule and that the refuse shall
be contained in appropriate receptacles.
SECTION 29L, Disposal - Time to Place Receptacle on Sidewalks,It shall be
the duty of the occupant of every building, premises or place of business to have
receptacles for garbage or rubbish placed on the outer edge of the sidewalk each day, or
at the edge of the street if there is no sidewalk, at such time, not earlier than one (1) hour
before collection as maybe directed by the City Environment and Natural Resources Office,
that upon previous permit secured from the Office of the City Mayor, industrial,
commercial or business establishments may place their receptacles outside their place of
business earlier than B:00 p.m. but not before 4:00 p.m. when such industrial,
commercial, or business establishment can satisfactorily show to the City Mayor, that their
closing hours are before 8:00 p.m. and that their refuse consist of rubbish only which
includes waste or other used papers, pasteboards, woven materials, cutting or metallic
vessels, broken glasses or porcelains or the like, subject however, to the condition that the
receptacles to be used must be without leakage with appropriate cover and the design of
which is approved by the City Environment and Natural Resources Office, and that when
the receptacles are outside, they shall be placed on the sidewalk in a manner that they will
not in any way cause obstruction to pedestrians and the free flow of traffic and that no
putrefying, decaying, or odorous matter shall be placed in the receptacles.
SECTION 292. Prohibition on Disposal, - As soon as the garbage wagon or
vehicle is loaded, it must be driven at once to the specified place of disposal and on no
account shall it be allowed to stand in the vicinity of any human habitation, schoolhouse, or
place of assembly. All such materials must be disposed of within twelve (12) hours after
collection.
Human excreta shall not be disposed of through the garbage collection seruice of the
City Environment and Natural Resources Office.
SECTION 293. Imposition of Fee, - There shall be collected from every owner or
operator of a business establishment an annual garbage fee in accordance with the following
schedule:

Ord. No.029L-17
A. Financial Institutions
1. Bank
(a) commercial banks for each office/branch
(b) savings bank for each office/branch
2. Savings and Loan associations, pawnshops, for
each office/branch
3. Financial and/or lending investors, money shops,
for each office/branch
(a) Authorized dealers in foreign currencies and
stock brokers
B. Insurance, pre-need companies, adjusters
C. Amusement places
Club and other similar establishments:
(a) day and night club
(b) night club/day club only
(c) cocKail lounges, bars, beer gardens,
super clubs
(d) cabarets, dance halls, discos, music
lounge, videoke, sing-along
Amusement centers and establishments with
coin operated machines, appliances,
amusement rides and shooting galleries,
side show booths and other similar
establishments with contrivances for the
amusement of customer per contrivance.
Billiard and/or pool halls per table
Bowling establishments
(a) automatic per lane
(b) non-automatic per lane
Cockpits
(a) within Agdao, Matina and
Buhangin area
(b) all other places/areas
6.
Casinos
Circuses, carnivals, and the like
Golf links and/or ranges
5,000.00
4,000.00
3,000.00
3,000.00
2,000.00
2,000.00
4,000.00
3,000.00
3,000.00
2,000.00
100.00
s00.00
500.00
200.00
6,000.00
3,000.00
8,000.00
3,000.00
3,000.00
4.
B
Gymnasiums
2,000.00

Ord. No. 0291-L7
10.
Membership clubs, association or
organization:
D
E
a. seruing food, drinks and lodging facilities
b. seruing food, drinks without lodging facilities
11. Race track, coliseum or similar establishment
12. Resofts and other similar establishments
13. Sauna baths and message clinics per cubicle
14. Skating rink
15. Stadia, spofts complexes
16. Theaters or cinema houses with seating capacity
of
a. more than two thousand persons
b. 500 to 2000 persons
c. less than 500 persons
17. Pelota courts, tennis coufts and other
similar in nature
Aircraft and water craft companies per office
Funeral parlors
1. With embalming establishment and
depositing of corpses in their funeral parlor
by rendering funeral seruices by any kind of
transpoftation
Hotels, motels, apaftels, pension inns, drive inns,
boarding houses, dormitories, dwelling and other
spaces for lease or for rent.
1. Hotels
a. five star per room
0 single bed
@ double bed
@ suite
b. four star per room
O single bed
@ double bed
O suite
2,000.00
2,000.00
3,000.00
3,000.00
100.00
2,000.00
3,000.00
5,000.00
3,000.00
2,500.00
1,000.00
3,000.00
5,000.00
50.00
100.00
150.00
30.00
60.00
100.00
F

Ord. No. 0291-L7
G.
c. three star per room
O single bed
0 double bed
0 suite
2. Motels and drive inns per room
3. Hotels, apaftels, pension inn
a. with air condition per room
O single bed
0 double bed
b. without air condition per room
O single bed
O double bed
4. Boarding houses, lodging houses, dormitories
per bed space (bed capacity)
Private hospitals and medical clinics with bed
capacity
a. less than 50 persons
b. 50 to 100 persons
c. 101 to 150 persons
d. 151 to 200 persons
e. 201 to 300 persons
f. more than 300 persons
g. animal hospital and others
H. Lumberyard
1. Lumberyard without machinery:
a. with a yard for deposit of lumber
having a space of more than 1,500
sq.m.
b. with a yard for deposit of lumber
having a space of more than 1,000
sq.m but not over 1,500 sq.m.
c. with a yard for deposit of lumber
having a space of more than 500
sq.m. but less than 1,000 sq.m.
d. with a yard for deposit of lumber
having a space of less than 500 sq.m.
30.00
40.00
60.00
50.00
40.00
s0.00
30.00
40.00
30.00
2,000.00
3,000.00
3,500.00
4,000.00
4,500.00
5,000.00
1,000.00
1,200.00
1,000.00
800.00
500.00

I. Expofter/Impofter
J. Manufacturers, producers and processors
a. Factory
Ord. No. 029L-I7
1,200.00
5,000.00
4,000.00
3,500.00
3,000.00
1,500.00
1,000.00
3,000,00
2,500.00
2,000.00
1,500.00
1,000.00
800.00
3,000.00
2,500.00
2,000.00
1,900.00
1,500.00
1,500.00
@ with an aggregate area of 1,000
sq.m. or more
@ with an aggregate area of 500
but less than 1,000 sq.m.
O with an aggregate area of 200
sq.m. or more but less than 500
sq.rTr.
A fadory with an aggregate area of
100 sq.m. or more but less than 200
sq.m.
@ area of 50 sq.m or more but less
than 100 sq.m.
@ less than 50 sq.m. - P720.00
b. Principal/branch or sales office with an
aggregate area of:
A fadory within the locality
. 1,000 sq.m. or more
. 500 or more but less than
1,000 sq.m.
. 200 or more but less than 500
sq.m.
o 100 or more but not less than
200 sq.m.
. 50 or more but not less than
100 sq.m.
. Less than 50 sq.m.
A fadory is outside the locality
. 1,000 sq.m. or more
. 500 or more but less than
1,000 sq.m.
. 200 or more but less than 500
sq.m.
. 100 or more but not less than
200 sq.m.
. 50 or more but not less than
100 sq.m.
. Less than 50 sq.m.
c. Other producers such as duckery,
poultry, garden and those not covered
by (a) & (b)

Ord. No. 029L-L7
O commercial
A backyard
K. Brewers, distillers, compounders and public eating
places with an aggregate area of:
. 1,000 sq.m. or more
. 500 or more but less than
1,000 sq.m.
. 200 or more but not less than
500 sq.m.
. 100 or more but not less than
200 sq.m.
. 50 or more but less than 100
sq.m.
. Less than 50 sq.m.
L. Storage
@ storage of alcohol
@ cold storage;
refrigerating cases with less
than 5 cu.m.
having an area of more than
1,000 but less than 1,500 sq.m.
with a total capacity of 51
sq.m. or more
O motor oi! storage
M. 1. Gasoline seruice filling stations
@ having an area of 1,500 sq.m. or
more
O having an area of more than 1,000
but less than 1,500 sq.m.
0 Having an area of 1,000 sq.m. or
less
@ Curb Pumps and filling stations
M. 2. Other combustible materials storage
A Over 5,000 kilos
O Resin over 3,000 to 5,000 kilos
N. Supermarkets, depaftment stores, independent
wholesalers, distributors, repackers and retailers, with an
aggregate area of:
1,000.00
500.00
5,000.00
4,000.00
3,000.00
2,500.00
1,500.00
1,000.00
500.00
600.00
800.00
1,500.00
500.00
2,500.00
2,000.00
1,500.00
600.00
800.00
600.00
o
a
a

. 1,000 sq.m. or more
. 500 or more but less than
1,000 sq.m.
. 200 or more but less than 500
sq.m.
. 100 or more but less than 200
sq.m.
. 50 or more but less than 100
sq.m.
o Less than 50 sq.m.
O. Institution of Learning
Universities, colleges, schools and educational or
vocational institutions based on the total semestral
enrollment as follows:
. 30,000 enrollees or more
. 20,000 enrollees or more but
less than 30,000
. 10,000 enrollees or more but
less than 20,000
.
5,000 enrollees or more but
less than 10,000
. 1,000 enrollees or more but
less than 5,000
o Less than 1,000 enrollees
P. Owners or operators of business establishments
rendering seruices
a. Business office of general
contractors (build ing specialty
engineering, manpower,
seruice/employment agencies,
private detective agencies,
adveftising agencies, with an
aggregate area of:
. 11000 sq.m. or more
n 500 or more but less than
1,000 sq.m.
. 200 or more but less than 500
sq.m.
. 100 or more but less than 200
sq.m.
. 50 or more but less than 100
sq.m.
. Less than 50 sq.m.
Ord. No. 029L-L7
5,000.00
4,000.00
3,000.00
2,000.00
1,200.00
800.00
5,000.00
4,000.00
3,000.00
2,500.00
2,000.00
1,500.00
4,000.00
3,000.00
2,000.00
1,500.00
800.00
600.00

b. Other contractors/business
establishments engage in offering
seruices for fee such as millers,
printers, publishers, dancing
tutorial schools and other similar
establishments not herein expressly
provided with an aggregate area
of:
. 1,000 sq.m. or more
. 500 or more but less than
1,000 sq.m.
. 200 or more but Iess than 500
sq.m.
. 100 or more but less than 200
sq.m.
. 50 or more but less than 100
sq.m.
. Less than 50 sq.m.
Q. Terminal garage for bus, taxi and other public utility
vehicles
Except those used for home garage:
With an area of 2,000 sq.m. or
Ord. No. 029L-L7
4,000.00
3,500.00
3,000.00
2,000.00
1,000.00
500.00
4,000.00
3,000.00
2,000.00
1,600.00
1,300.00
200.00
4,000.00
3,000.00
s00.00
300.00
U, Liquified petroleum
a
@ Gas dealers
o Marketer
. Dealers
more
With an area of 700 or more
but less than 1,000 sq.m.
With an area of 500 or more
but less than 700 sq.m.
With an area of 300 or more
but less than 500 sq.m.
With an area of Iess than 300
sq.m.
@ Main branch office or each power plant
A Every branch office thereof
a
o
a
a
S. Vendors, peddlers, ambulant vendors except
delivery trucks or vans
T. Electric and power companies

Ord. No. 029L-17
V. Market stallholders
0 Public markets for each stall
@ Private market for each stall
Stall holders with more than five sq.m. and/or
rendering special seruices such as: pawnshop,
appliance stores, banks and other similar
establishments, shall be included under the terms
stallholders and levied garbage seruice charges in
accordance with the peftinent provision herein.
W. Media facilities
O Newspaper, books or magazine
publications:
. Daily newspapers
o Weekly magazines
. Books and other magazine
publications
0 Radio stations
AT\l stations
X. Communication companies
0 Telegram, teletype, cable and
wireless communications
companies, etc.
. Main branch office
o Every branch/stations thereof
0 Telephone companies
. Main branch office
. Every branch/stations thereof
Y. Administrative office, display offices and/or officer
professions
Z. Film showing per day
Z.a. Memorial Parks:
1. Private Cemetery
Burial Ground
a. 1,625 lots, 5 hectares
300.00
300.00
800.00
500.00
300.00
500.00
800.00
4,000.00
2,000.00
4,000.00
1,500.00
300.00
300.00
5,000.00

b.975 - 1,300 lots,3-4 hectares
c. 651 - 974lots, 2-3 hectares
d.325 - 650 lots, 1-3 hectares
Z.b. Private Pofts
No. of Vessels
Z.c. Private Slaughterhouse
Garbage Fee X No. of Heads Butchered
Cow
Hog
Goat
Chicken
Z.d. Buyback Center - Sq. Meter
More than 1,500 sq.m.
1,001 - 1,500 sq.m.
501 - 1,000 sq.m.
500 sq.m. and below
Z.e. Private Haulers/Forwarder
Z.f. Shipping Yard - Per Sq. Meter
More than 1,500 sq.m.
1,001 - 1,500 sq.m.
501 - 1,000 sq.m.
Z.g. Carwash
All other business trades or occupation not included
in the foregoing SECTION
Special Collection of voluminous garbage from
establishments, companies, vessels and aircrafts
Environmental Solid Waste Management Ceftificate
Residential Including Subdivisions and Condominiums:
Imposition of garbage fees shall be computed on the basis of
the floor area of the buildings and structures, on or before the
end of each month as follows:
Ord. No.029t-L7
4,000.00
3,000.00
1,500.00
5,000.00
3.00/cow
2.00/hog
1.00/goat
1.00/chicken
5,000.00
4,000.00
3,000.00
2,000.00
3,000.00
4,000.00
3,000.00
2,000.00
1,000.00
1s0.00
5,000.00 for the first 15
kilometers and an
additional amount of One
Hundred Fifty Pesos
(P150.00) for every
succeeding kilometer per
truckload
s00.00

Ord. No. 029t-L7
One Hundred (100) Sguare Metcrs and Above
100-00lmonth
Below One Hundred Square Meters at Twenty Pesos
50.00/month
Which shall be paid by the actual occupants of the building or structure on a monthly
basis, provided however, that actual occupants of buildings and structures who are living
below povefi line as ceftified to by the City Social Seruices and Development Office
(CSSDO) shall be exempted from the payment of Residential Garbage Fees.
A surcharge of 10o/o per annum shall be imposed on any or all amounts on residential
garbage fees that are due and payable.
Z.h. Tipping Fee
3.00 /kilo
Z.i. Inspection Fee shall be imposed if the owner
requests inspection for Land Use Conformity
Zj. Constructions (per City Ord. No. 230 s. 1991)
1, Construction of Offlrce
2. Construction of Offices (Providing Labor only)
3. Residential Buildings (100 sq. m.)
4. Commercial Buildings (200 sq. m. and below)
5. Industrial Buildings (300 sq.m. and below)
6. Repairs / Renovation/Alterations
7. Demolition/Fencing
500.00
225.04
225.00
75.00
375.00
and P1.00 per sq.m. in
excess of 200 sq. m.
450.00
and 'PI.OO per sq. m.
in excess of 300 sq. m.
2,00 per sg.m.
150.00
SECTION 294. Time of Payment - Unless provided in this Code, the annual
garbage fees prescribed in this Article shall be paid to the City Treasurer by the owner or
operator of the business establishment therein on or before the twentieth (20th) day of
January of every year.
In the case of Residential Garbage Fees prescribed in this Code, the same shall be
paid to the Gty Treasurer or his duly authorized depuUes, The Oty Treasurer may
designate the barangay treasurer as his deputy to collect such fees. In case a bond is
required for the purpose, the city government shall pay the premium thereon in addition
to the premiums of bond that may be required as prescribed under the Loca! Government
Code. It is understood that the barangays from which the residential garbage fee is
collected, shall be entiUed to a share of fifty percent (50o/o) from the total amount
collected, which share shal! be remitted to the barangays concerned after deducting any
or all expenses.

Ord. No. 029t-t7
SECTION 295. Garbage *ruice chatges for multiple business, - Where two
or more kinds of business subject to garbage seruice charges are conducted in the same
place or establishments by the same owner/operator, the charge to be collected shall be that
of the business which has the highest rate, plus ten percent (10o/o) thereof.
Manufacturers, producers, maintaining or operating principal offices, factories and/or
sales office in the same premises, for purposes of collection of the garbage seruice charges,
shall pay based on the total aggregate area of such business at a rate prescribed under
SECTION 293(J) of this Code.
SECTION 296, When a building is u*d bth for rcsidential and ommercial
purpo*s, - When a building is used both for Residential and Commercial purposes, the rate
for commercial purposes shall be applied.
SECTION 297 . Administrative Prouisions,
(a) For purposes of the imposition of fees, these charges shall only be collected in
areas that are seruiced by the City Government to be determined by the CENRO and the City
Treasurer.
(b) The owner or operator of the aforementioned business establishments shall
provide for his premises a separate container for each type of waste, which shall be disposed
according to City Ordinance 0361-10, SERIES of 2010.
SECTION 298. Penal Prouision, -Any person who violates the provision of SECTION
293 of this Article shall, upon conviction, be punished with a fine not exceeding Five
Thousand Pesos (P 5,000.00) and/or imprisonment not exceeding one (1) year.
Afticle Four. - Guidelines for the Establishment of Privately-owned
Public Markets in the City of Davao; and Providing Penalties for Violations
Thereof; and for Other Purposes
SECTION 299. General Provisions:
(1) The operator must obey the legal order of the duly constituted authorities and
comply with all the requirements in accordance with existing Iaws, ordinances, rules and
regulations, relative thereto.
(2) The privately-owned public market operation shall be duly authorized by the
SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod of Davao City.
(3) The market site must be within the allowable uses under the Zoning
Ordinance of the City.
(4) The site of such private market shall not be less than five (5) kilometerc from
any existing public markets, within the City of Davao.
(5) The market shall have patronage of at least Fifly Thousand (50,000) to One
Hundred Thousand (100,000) consumerc in the area where it is established.
(6) The Applicant/Operator must secure building permit and pay appropriate fees
thereof, before stafting the construction of the market building.
(7) The market site must have an adequate area for parking space and expansion
which must be contiguous to the market site applied for.

Ord. No, 029L-L7
(8) The market premises shall be open to government inspection and supervision
at any reasonable hour of the day or as may be required by circumstances, by the Cty
Mayor or his duly authorized representatives.
(9) That the rates of market fees and stall/booth rentals or charges imposed in
the market must not exceed the existing government-operated market fees and stall rentals
or charges.
(10) Sanitation and health laws, rules and regulations must be strictly observed
and complied with.
(11) The market,operator must secure the proper business permit/license and pay
the required taxes and fees upon approval of his authority.
(12) The market operator must require each stall or booth holder to secure
his/her business permit or license and pay the required taxes and fees.
(13) The market operator must provide a public weighing scale that is accurate
and properly calibrated by the City Treasurer's Office.
(14) No paft of the building must be used as a residence of any vendor or lessee,
except as an office only of the operator, to maintain sanitation and avoid trouble and
disorder.
(15) The applicanfloperator must see to it that the sidewalk and passageway shall
not be utilized for vending purposes so as not to obstruct vehicular and pedestrian traffic.
(16) The market operatorc shall maintain a complete record of fish and meat
entries in the market as required by the City Treasure/s Office for taxation and report
purposes, in the following form:
Name of Vendor Variety Fish/Meat Weight
kilos
kilos
(L7) Each stall in the Fish SECTION must be provided with running water coming
from the Davao City Water District; Provided, that the Meat SECTION must be provided with
an adequate SECTION water coming from the DCWD;
SECTION 3OO. Facilities, - Facilities therein must be provided, such as, but not
limited to, the following:
(1) There must be an aftesian well or flowing water to cushion DCWD water
interruption.
(2) A functional storm drainage system must be provided throughout the market
premises.(3) For garbage disposal system, separate containers must be provided each for
the dry and wet garbage.
(4) A janitor, security guard, and a collector must be employed immediately upon
the opening of the market operation; Provided, that security guards must be posted roundthe-clock.(5) Overhead Illuminations:
(a) Adequate overhead illuminations for the building premises must be
provided, including the four (4) corners of the market lot; Provided that, no electricity
bulb shall be lower than twenty-five (25) watts and no fluorescent lamp shall be
lower than twenty (20) watts.
(b) Alleys must be adequately lighted.

Ord. No.029L-L7
(6) Water Supply:
(a) Adequate potable water supply must be provided round-the-clock, for
drinking purposes.
(b) Adequate mineral water for flushing market floors and comfort facilifies
must be provided.
(7) Clean and adequate comfort rooms for each sex, properly maintained and
disinfected daily.
(8) Clean and convenient parking space.
(9) Electric connections must be complete and proper, with adequate outlets for
conUngent purposes.
SECTION 3OL. Ptofuction for ilte Buy'ing PuUic/Consumer. - Safeguard must
be instituted, such as:
(1) Calibrated weighing scales must be checked by representatives of the City
Treasurer.(2) Meat shall come ftom slaughterhouse authorized or permitted by the City
Government under proper government superuision - inspected and passed for HUMAN
CONSUMPrION.
(3) Adequate security seruices shall be provided for the safety of the
public/consumers and their propefties.
SECTION 302. Pruper and ldentifiable *ctioning of Markeb,
1. Wet Division:
Fish, Meat Vegetables and Fruits;
2. Carenderia SECTION;
3. Refreshment Parlors;
4. Variety/Sari-Sari SECTION;
5. General Merchandise and Dry Goods SECTION;
6. Miscellaneous SECTION;
7. And the market operators must provide for the dropping zone for the
producersffarmers to drop their far:m products.
SECTION 303. Any Other Rules, -'Ihe City Administrator and the City Health
Officer shal! have the authority to promulgate rules they may deem proper in the premises,
in accordance with and in pursuance of law, ordinances, rules or regulations subject to the
approval of the City Mayor.
SECTION 304. Penal Prouisions, - Any violation of any of the provision of these
guidelines shall be penalized by a fine of not more than Five Thousand Pesos (P5,000.00) or
imprisonment of not more than six (6) months or both, at the discretion of the court, in
addition to the revocaUon of the violato/s permit or license and closure of his business,
Afticle Five. - Charges for Parking
SECTION 305, General Purpose, - It shall be unlawful for any vehicle
owners/drivers to park their motor vehicles in designated city streets of Davao, without
paying corresponding parking fees, as enumerated in the succeeding sections;

Ord. No. 0291-L7
SECTION 306, fmposition of Fee,- There shall be collected from all registered
owners of motor vehicles operaUng in the City of Davao, annual parking fees for the use of
the City owned parking area or designated streets for pay parking in accordance with the
following schedule:
a. Annual Parking Rates
Vehicle Type Annual
Trirycle
Private Cars and Seruice Vehicles
Jeepneys
Cargo Trucks/Delivery Vans
Buses
b. Daily Parking Rates - (For those who will not opt to avail of
the provisions under sub-paragraph [aJ above).
VehicleType Daity
1. For the first three (3) hours
(a) Buses or cargo trucks
(b) Mini buses or jeepneys
(c) Cars
(d) Tricycles/motorcycl es
2. For each succeeding hour or a fraction thereof:
(a) Buses or cargo trucks
(b) Mini buses or jeepneys
(c) Cars
(d) Tricycles/motorcycles
P
200.00
1,000.00
1,000.00
2,000.00
2,000.00
10.00
s.00
s.00
2.00
4.00
2.00
1.00
1.00
P
P
Parking Fees prescribed in this Code shall be paid to the City Treasurer or his duly
authorized deputies. The City Treasurer may deputize the barangay treasurer to collect
such fees. In case a bond is required for the purposq the cr$ govenunent shall pay the
premium thereon in addition to the premiums of bond that may be required as prescribed
under the Local Government Code of 1991. It is understood that the barangays from
which the parking fee is collected, shall be entitled to a share of twenty percent (20o/o)
ftom the total amount collected, which share shall be remitted to the barangays concerned
after deducting any or all expenses.
SECTION 3O7, Colleded Fees,- Parking fees collected under this Afticle shall
accrue to the City Government of Davao and form paft of the General Fund, except the
share of the barangay mentioned in SECTION 305 of this Code.
SECTION 3O8. TIme Coverage,- The provision of SECTION 306 of this Afticle shall
be obserued and enforced stafting 6:00 otlock in the morning until 9:00 otlock in the
evening, except Saturdays, Sundays and holidays.
SECTION 309. Liability of Driverc and/or Ownerc,-Tlte drivers and/or owners
of the motor vehicles shall be liable jointly and severally for the non-payment of parking
fees.

Ord. No. 029L-L7
Afticle Six. - City Hospital Seruice Fees
SECTION 310. fmposition of City Hospital Seruice Fees, - The following
schedule of fees is hereby imposed for seruices of facilities rendered by the City Hospital:
Amount of Fee
Medical Fees
In Patient:
Ward Room
P
Delivery Room
Normal Delivery (excluding medicine)
5,000.00
Out-Patient Seruice:
P.E. ConsultaUon and Prescription
(excluding laboratory and other specific
examination)
Hypodermic, IM injection
(excluding medicine)
Intravenous injection
(excluding medicine)
General Surgical Dressing
Suturlng of Wound
Dental Seruices:
Extraction per tooth (including anesthesia)
Temporary filling per sufface
Permanent filling per suface
Silicate cement
Composite filling
Prophylaxis
X-Ray Eramination Fees
Chest X-Ray (PA)
AP
Thoracic - Lumbar (AP l-ateral)
APL
Lumbo - Sacral (AP l-ateral)
Extremities, Long Bones, AP Lateral
Hand and Wrist - AP
4. Laboratory Examination Fees:
Blood Chemistry
Fasting Blood Sugar
Blood Urea Nitrogen
Cholesterol
Creatinine
Uric Acid
Complete blood count
Hemoglobin/Hemotocrit Determi nation
Bleeding/CIotting Time
450.00
xFree
50.00
50.00
50.00
s0.00
80.00
50.00
50.00
50.00
s0.00
50.00
150.00
700.00
300.00
170.00
75.00
115.00
110.00
90.00
110.00
40.00
30.00
60.00

Ord. No. 0291-17
Thrombocyte Count
Parasitology Routine Stool Fxamlnation
Pregnancy Test
Blood Banking
ABO -RH Testing (Blood Typing)
Gram Stain
A, Rehabilitated and Newly Established Public Cemetery
a)
Rental fee for Grave Lots
t Adult SECTION
P
i
Children SECTION
b.) Compartmentalized Niches Rental Fee
. Ground Lsrel
. Second Level
o Third Level
. Fourth Level
70.00
30.00
100.00
30.00
s0.00
SECTION 3tL Time and fAaaaer of Palmeal - The fees herein shalt he paid
upon application or prior to the examination. In no case shall deposit be required in
emergency cases requiring immediate attention.
SECTION 312. Ecemptions,' Residents who are certified by the assigned City
Social Services Development Offcer (CSSDO) as indigent and upn approval by the Crty
Mayor may be exempted from the payment of any or all fees in this schedule.
Afticle Seven. Cemetery Charges
SECTION 313. Coverage, - The provisions of this article shall apply to al! unsold,
undisposed grave tots/niches in all pubtic cemeteries and all those that may hereafter be
acquired by the City of Davao.
SECTION 3L4. Administration of Cemeteries, - The administration, operation and
maintenance of all public cemeteries within the tenitorial jurisdiction of the City of Davao
shatl be under the control and supervision of the Head of the City Economic Enterprise, who
shall be the Cemetery Administrator and shall see to it that the provisions of this Article are
strictly enforced and complied with.
SECTION 315. Lot Clasifiation, - There shall be two sections of grave lots for
lease in all public cemeteries: one for children and one for adults.
SECTION 316. Lot ldentifrcation, - For purposes of identification and reference,
lots in any public cemetery of Davao City shall be numbered consecutively with the
conesponding block numberc by the Cemetery Administration, in accordance with the Sketch
Plan prepared hy the City Enginee/s OfficeSECTION 317. fmposition of Fes. - There shall be collected the following rental
ftes for a period of six (6) years for the rental of City cemetery lots:
13,200.00
5,5oo.oo
7,040.00
8,800.00
7,920.00
6,160.00
An indigent is one who belongs to a family whose family income does not exceed Fifty
Thousand Pesos (P50,000.00) per year or the povefi line established by NEDA, whichever is
higherPage 195
Ord. No. 029L-L7
After the expiration of Six (6) year lease period, the remains shall be exhumed and
transfened to an Ossuary under a new year:ly contrac,t which will have an Imposition Fee of
Two Hundred Twenty Pesos (P220.00) and an annual renewal fee payable every January.
Failure to do so will cause the exhumation of the remains and moved to a common grave.
No physical improvements shal! be allowed on the lots, niches and ossuaries.
B. Pre-Rehabilitated Public Cemetery
a.) Burial Fee for Grave Lots Niche / Pantheon
. Adult SECTION
P
t Children SECTION
2,) Niches (niches/pantheon placed on top or
patong burials)
b.) Annual renewal fee for Burials on Grave lots, Pantheons / Niches whose lease
contract has upired are as follows:
1.) Grave Lots
. Adult SECTION
P
275.00
t Children SECTION
220.00
2,200.00
1,100.00
275.00
c.) Burial on Grave lots and pantheon/Niches without lease contract from 2005 and
below, as fullows:
1.) Grave LoE
. Adult SECTION
P
2,200.00
t Children SECTION
1,100.00
2./ Niches (niches/pantheon placed on top or
patong burials)
2,200.00
3.) Exhumation of remains ( per set of bones) 500.00
SECTION 318. Lease of Grave LoB. - Lease of grave lots or cemetery spaces for
burials at the Davao City public cemetery shall be per lot, in accordance with the above lot
classification.
Grave lots must be leased according to the actual needs or numbers of deceased
persons to be buried and shal! in no case be Ieased, disposed of or possessed by reseruation
or for future use.
SECTION 319, Niche Rental, - Niches must be leased according to the actual needs
or numbers of deceased persons to be buried and shall in no case be leased, disposed of or
possesed by reseruaUon or fur future use, nor shall it be subleased.
The full rental fee of the niches in accordance with the above niche classification, as
the case maybe, must be paid in advance or prior to their utilization or use,

Ord. No. 029L-t7
SECTION 320. Pertmeter Niches, - There shall be constructed niches for lease
along the perimeter fence, except the frontage thereof, of every existing putlic cemetery, if
feasible, and in all public cemeteries to be hereafter established in accordance with the
specifications indicated in the working plan prepared by the City Engineer's Office.
SECTION 321. Niche Clasifration. -There shall be two (2) sections of niches for
lease in atl public cemeteries one for children and one for adultsSECTION 322. Niche ldentification, - For purposes of idenUfication and reference,
niches constructed along the perimeter fence in all public cemeteries shall be numbered
consecutively with the conesponding block numberc in the Cemetery Administration, as
indicated in the plan of the Cty Enginee/s Office.
SECTION 323. Time of Payment -The fee shall be paid to the City Treasurer upon
application for a burial permit prior to the construction thereon of any structure whether
permanent or temporaty, or to the interment of the deceased. Thereafter, the fee shall be
paid within twenty (20) days before the expiration of the lease period.
The fee shall not be collected in a paupe/s burial, upon recommendation of the City
Mayor.
SECTION 324. Place of Tombstone, - The lessee is required to place a grave
marker and/or tombstone on the niche or on the grave within three (3) months from the
date of burial in the following form:
Name
Date of Birth
Date of Death
SECTION 32!i. Tombfione and/or marker requirement, - The grave marker
andlor tombstone in any public cemetery in Davao City shall be made in accordance with
the approved plans and specifications prepared by the City Engineer's Office. In no case,
shall the construction of niches or installation of grave markers and/or tombstone be
permitted, if the same shall be made in the form other than that specified hereof.
SECTION 326, Authorhed percon/s to sign Contrac$ of Lcase. - The Gty
Economic Enterprise, representing the City Mayor, is hereby authorized to sign, for and in
behalf of the City Government of Davao, all contracts of lease which shall, among others
include the name of the lessee, cMil status, nationality, address, relationship to the
deceased, name of the deceased relative, the lot or niche classification and location, price
and such other information or data as may be necessaty.
SECTION 327, DaU of the Cemetery Administraton - It shall be the duty of
the Cemetery Administrator or the Officer-In-Charge of the cemetery administration to
ensure strict compliance and obseruance of the above provisions, before releasing the
lots/niche for lease or the installation of the corresponding grave marker or tombstone
therefore, as the case may be.

Ord. No. 029t-L7
SECTION 328. Penalty, - Failure to pay the renta! fee within the time provided by
this Article shall subject the lessee to pay a surcharge of twenty-five percent (25olo) and
an interest of foufteen percent (L4o/o) per annum based on the unpaid amount until the
same shall have been duly paid.
SECTION 329. Administrative Pruvisions,
(a) As used in this Afticle, City Cemetery shall refer to the lot owned by the City
Government.
(b) A standard cemetery lot shall be three (3) meters long and one (1) meter wide
or three (3) square meterc.
(c) Except in cases allowed under existing laws and regulations, no person may be
buried or interred, permanently or temporarily, other than in properly designated cemeteries
or burial grounds.
(d) In addition to the burial permit, a ceftificate of death issued by the attending
physician or City Health Officer; or, if no medical officer is available, by the City Mayor, City
Administrator, or any member of the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod shall be required.
(e) Any construction of whatever kind or nature in the public cemetery whether for
temporary or perpetual use, shall only be allowed after the approval of a permit issued by
the City Mayor, upon recommendation of the City Health Officer.
(0 In case a lessee intends to renew the lease after its termination, he must
inforn the City Treasurer within thiny (30) days before the expiry date of the lease, and shall
pay the corresponding fees therefore.
(g) It shall be the duty of the City Treasurer to prepare and submit to the City
Mayor a list of the leases that are to expire five (5) days prior to the expiration date. The
City Treasurer shall send a reminder to the lessee of the expiration of his lease, two (2)
weeks prior to the expiration date of the Iease.
(h) The City Treasurer shall keep a register in account of the cemetery, together
with such additional information as may be required by the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod.
Afticle Eight. - Regulation on the Operation and Superuision Fee
on Funeral Parlorc, Privately-Owned Public
Cemeteries and Memorial Parks
SECTION 330. Authority to Operate Funeral Parlorc, Privately Owned
Public Cemeteries and Memorial Parks,
(a) The SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod may grant the establishment and operation of
funeral parlor, privately owned public cemeteries and memorial parks for a period of not
exceeding twenty-five (25) years. Existing covered establishment shall automatically be
granted permits to operate subject to the conditions the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod may
adopt for their operations.
(b) Privately-owned public cemeteries and memorial parks shall allocate ten
percent (10o/o) of their total land areas common burial ground on which no fee or charge
may be collected except the amount of One Hundred Pesos (P100.00). The remains of the
interred person may be exhumed after five (5) years to give way to other who may be
buried in the same way. The bones after exhumation shall be placed on plastic bags with
identification of the dead and shall be stored in a bones warehouse for final disposition by
their living relatives.

Ord. No.029L-17
All private cemeteries and memorial parks shall submit annually their burial loVlot
plans and list of interred persons and their dates of burial, exhumation or transfer to the
City. (c) Funeral procession shall be made in coordination with the City Transpoft and
Traffi c Management Offi ce.
(d) The rates of fees and charges including the sale/lease of niches, memorial
lots and related seruices by funeral parlors, public cemeteries and memorial parks shall be
approved by the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod.
SECTION 331. Payment of Superuision Fee, - The operation and management
of funeral parlors and private cemeteries and memorial parks shall be under the
superuision of the City Health Officer and the owners thereof shal! pay an annual
superuision fee of One Thousand Pesos (P1,000.00).
SECTION 332. Administrative Provision, - All funera! parlors, private/public
cemeteries and memorial parks shall strictly follow the provision of national laws and
issuances and the City Ordinance relative to the care and disposition of dead persons such
as:
a) No remains shall be buried without a death ceftificate signed by the attending
physician.
b) The death ceftificate must be submitted to the City Civil Registrar within fofi-eight
(48) hours after death.
c) Graves must at least be one and one-half (1 %) meters deep.
d) In cases of death resulting from crime or violence, the remains cannot be buried
without permission from the City Prosecutor or any government official authorized
by law.
e) Except when required by legal investigation or when permitted by CiW Health
authorities, no unembalmed remains shall stay unburied longer than fofi-eight
(48) hours after death.
0 When the cause of death is a dangerous communicable disease, the remains must
be buried twelve (12) hours after death, the cadaver shall not be taken to any place
of public assembly and only the adult members of the family of the deceased may
be permitted to attend the funeral.
g) Unclaimed remains shall be buried at the expense of the City Government or may
be delivered to medical school or scientific institution upon authority of the City
Health Officer.
h) Disinterment or exhumation may only be permitted after a period of five (5) years.
i) For death caused by dangerous communicable disease, disinterment may be
granted after five (5) years.
j) The City Health Office may allow earlier disinterment with approval from the City
Mayor.
k) Cremation may only be undeftaken with the approval of the City Health Officer and
the rules and regulations that may be issued for the purposes.
Article Nine. - Rental Fee on Mineral Lands
SECTION 333. Collection of Fee, - There shall be collected an annual rental fee
from the lessee of mineral lands in this City for the exploration, development and
exploitation and disposition of minerals from said lands covered by Iease in accordance with
the following rates:

Page tr99
Ord. No. 029t-L7
On coal-bearing public lands
Five Pesos (P 5.00) per hectare or ftaction thereof for each and every year for the
first ten (10) years; and
Ten Pesos (P 10.00) per hectare or fraction thereof for each and every year
thereafter during the lease period.
On public lands bearing quarry resources
Fifty Pesos (P50.00) per hectare or fraction thereof for each and every year during
the lease period.
On all other mineral lands containing metallic or non-metallic minerals under existing
mining laws and decrees.
Ten Pesos (P10.00) per hectare, or a fraction thereof for each and every year during
the lease period.
Five Pesos and 50/100 (P5.50) per hectare or fraction thereof for each and every year for
the first ten (10) years; and
Eleven Pesos (P11.00) per hectare or fraction thereof for each and every year thereafter
during the lease period.
On public lands bearing quarry resources
Fifty-five Pesos (P55.00) per hectare or fraction thereof for each and every year during the
lease period.
On all other lands containing metallic or non-metallic minerals under existing mining laws
and decrees.
Eleven Pesos (P11.00) per hectare, or a fraction thereof for each year during the lease
period.
Secdion 334,
limeofhyment, - The rentalfee shall be paid in advance to
the City Treasurer or his duiy authorized representative on the date of the granting of the
lease and on the same date every year thereafter during the life of the lease.
Artiele Ten - Oceupation Fee for Mining Claims
*ction 335. Collection of Fee, -There shall be collected an annual application
fee on locator, holder or occupant of mining claim in the amount of Two Thousand Two
Hundred Pesos (P2,200.00) per hectare or fractional part thereof, until the lease covering
the-mining claim shall have been granted.
SECTION 336. Time of Payment - The fee shall be payable to the City Treasurer
on the date of registration of the mining claim and on the same date every year thereafter,
until the lease covering the mining claim shall have been granted.
Seetion 3817. Adninistrative Provision, - The City Treasurer shall keep a list of
all registered mining claims indicating therein the name of locators, area in hectares and
date of registration.
Article.EleveR. - Regulation in the Establishment, Classification,
Administration, and Operation of Government-owned/
Operated Public Market

Ord. No. 0291-17
GENERAL PRAVTSIANS
SECTION 338. Coverage, - This Ordinance shall govern the establishment,
classification, administration and operation of government-owned/operated public markets
in the City of Davao and the imposition and collection of reasonable market rentals, fees
and,charges-for sccupancy and use theresf;
SECTION 339. Authority to Establish Public lllarkeb, - The City of Davao,
pursuant to existing laws and legal procedures, shall have the authority to establish,
maintain and operate public markets within its territorialjurisdiction;
SECTION.34O. Market SECTION. - City Public Markets shall-be divided into various
sections to facilitate an efficient administration thereof.
a. Meat SECTION - refers to an area where all kinds of meat such as porlq beef, and
goat, whether fresh, frozen or processed.
b. Dressed Chicken SECTION - refers to an area where dressed chicken and other
poultry rneat produc,ts"are displayed and sold.
c. Fish SECTION - refers to an area where all seafoods or marine products, such as
including but not limited to fish, shrimps, crabs, mussels, clams, oysters,
lobsters and seaweeds, whether fresh or frozen, are displayed and sold.
d. Vegetable and Fruit SECTION - refers to an area where all vegetables, fruits, root
crops, spieesl food condiments, and other agricultural products, whether fresh
or processed, are displayed and sold.
e. Variety or Groceries SECTION - refers to an area where all items other than
specified under a, b and c, but not limited to, groceries, toiletries, dairy
products, household products and other basic commodities, are displayed and
sotd.
t. Rice, Corn and other Cereals SECTION - refers to an area where all variety of rice
and corn including feeds are displayed and sold.
g. Food Coufl/Eatery SECTION - refers to an area where all ready to eat food and
beverages are sold for public consumption with provision for dining area such as
carenderia, refreshment parlo rs a n d cafeterias.
h. Dry Goods SECTION - where all dry goods such as clothing, housekeeping, and
farm materials, gardening tools, kitchen utensils, appliance and others, are
displayed and sold.
i. Cold Storage SECTION - refers to an area offering refrigeration service and sale of
ice in whatever form is rnade.
j. Miscellaneous SECTION - where all goods and seruices not classified above are
sold to the public, such as but not limited to parlor, clinics, spa, baid, flower
shops, and business center. Provided, however, that any vendor who wants to
engage in a line of business not expressly mentioned herein shall secure first the
approval of the Market Committee.
k. Livestock SECTION - a space in the market where small live farm animals are
allowed to be displayed and sold such as pigs, goats, chicken and other small
farm animals.
No vendor shall be allowed to sell, display or offer goods or seruices that are not
included, or among those goods or services authorized to be sold or offered in the specific
market SECTION, where his stall or space belongs.

Ord. No.029t-L7
The numbering, re-sectioning, or additional designation or identification of another
SECTION in the pubtic market shall. be the r.esponsibility of the Market Committee.
SUPERVISION AN D CONTROL
SECTION 341, City Administraten - Tfie City.Administrator or his duly authorized
representative shall exercise direct and immediate superuision, administration and control
over government-owned/operated public markets and the personnel thereof, including
those whose duties concern the maintenance, upkeep, peace and order of the market
premises, except Revenue Collectors, in accordance with laws, local ordinance and other
rules" and negulations pertinent thereto.
SECTION 342. Market Superuison - There shall be a Market Superuisor, who,
under the direct superuision and control of the City Administrator or his duly authorized
representative, shall have superuision and control over government-owned/operated
public.markets as.well as those -that.rnay still be"established. :Ihe said Market SupeMsor
shall also have full control of the administrative direction of all personnel, except Revenue
Collectors and other personnel directly involved in the collection function under such
markets and shall enforce the provisions of this Afticle and other rules and regulations
governing the operation of Public Markets.
Duties and Responsibilities:
a. Implements and executes the plans and policies of the City Administrator or his
duly authorized representative in the operation of all city-owned/operated public
markets which normally include sanitation, cleanliness, security, order and
-depoftment inside the "market,prernises.
b. Executes and implements directive and policies emanating from the City
Administrator or his duly authorized representative peftaining to the operations
of city-owned/operated public markets within his/her respective jurisdictions
which-normally include sanitation, cleanliness, security, or-der and conduct inside
the market premises and its immediate environs.
c. Sees to it that all stallholders are provided with the corresponding official
receipts and prescribed cash tickets, respectively, for the stalls or spaces
,occupied by them;
d. Prepares weekly statistical data on prevailing prices of goods in the public
markets, and other means of Consumer's Protection, including flea markets, for
the information of the City Administrator or his duly authorized representative.
e. Superuises and evaluates the activities and pefformanee of all subordinate
market personnel except market collectors and other personnel involved in the
collection functions, and investigates complaints effecting their public
performances and attitudes.
f. Manages the mainteRance and efficient utilization of all market proBerties;
facilities and supplies.

Ord. No. 029t-t7
g. Sees to it that foods and other related products sold at the markets are fit for
human consumption.
h. Strictly implements that meat or carcasses for sale or disposal at the markets
must be slaughtered at the city-owned slaughterhouse/s or any National Meat
Inspection Seruice (NMIS) approved slaughterhouse/s and must be properly
stamped or branded and issued with a Meat Inspectisn Ceftificate (MIC).
i. Performs such other functions and duties that maybe assigned by the City
Administrator or his duly authorized representative.
SECTION 343. Market Inspector/s, - There shall be a Market Inspector/s for
each city-owned or operated public market who shall be the staff-arm of the Market
Superuisor.
Duties and Responsibilities:
(a) Inspects the Cash Tickets or Official Receipts issued to ambulant/transient
and regular vendors;
(b) Inspects the sanitary conditions and upkeep of the Markets;
(c ) Assists the Market Supervisor whether all sanitary rules and regulations of
the market are complied with;
(d) Repofts to the Market Superuisor any deficiencies found during the inspection;
(e) Assists the Market Superuisor to ensure that food and other related products
sold at the market are fit for human consumption;
(f) Assists the Market Superuisor that only meat or carcasses for sale or disposed at
the market must be slaughtered at the city-owned slaughterhouse/s or any National
Meat Inspection Seruice (NMIS) approved Slaughterhouse/s and properly stamped or
branded and issued with a Meat Inspection Ceftificate (MIC);
(g) Peforms such other functions and duties that maybe assigned by the Market
Superuisor.
SECTION 344, t{arket Guard/s and Other Perconnel, - All market guard/s
and other personnel as may be deemed shall be appointed in accordance with the existing
civil seruice rules and regulations.
MARKET GUARD/S -Duties and Responsibilities:
(1) Ensures the protection and safety of all governnrent proper,ties inside
the premises of the market and its immediate surroundings;
(2) Assists the Market Superuisor in the maintenance of peace and
order in the market and apprehend those who violate the same;

Ord. No. 029L-L7
(3) Assists the Market Superuisor and Market Inspector to ensure that meat or
carcasses for sale or disposal at the market is properly stamped or branded
and with a Meat Inspection Ceftificate (MIC);
(4) Performs such other functions and duties that maybe assigned by the Market
Superuisor.
SECTION 345. Wearing of Uniforms, - All market personnel shall be required to
wear the prescribed uniform provided by the City.
SECTION 346. Carrier (Cargadores) in the Public Market, - A carrier in any
city public market must be a Filipino citizen, of good moral character, as ceftified by the
Barangay Captain of the Barangay where he resides and is registered as such in the Office
of the Market Superuisor. Each carrier shall be provided by the Market Supervisor with
registration ceftificate and identification card that which he shall wear conspicuously while
working.
CLASSIFICATION AND COLLECTION OF FEES
SECTION 347, Clasification of Public Marke&, - For the purpose of this Code,
city-owned and/or operated public markets are hereby classified into:
Class A - Those with an average monthly income of P 450,000.00 or more
during the preceding six (6) months.
Class B - Those with an average monthly income of P300,000.00 or more
but not more than P 450,000.00 during the preceding six (6) months.
Class C - Those with an average rnonthly income of P 150,000.00 or more
but not more than P300,000.00 during the preceding six (6) months.
Class D - Those with an average monthly income of less than P150,000.00
during the preceding six (6) months.
The "Average Monthly Income" refers to the total amount collected by the CiW
Treasurer from the Market Vendors for the use of the booth/stall or booths/stalls or spaces
they are occupying and all other income derived from market operations, excluding the
amount for electric and water bills paid by the vendor{occupants.
The City Treasurer upon consultation with the City Administrator or his duly
authorized representative, is hereby empowered to classifl, the City Government-owned
and/or operated public markets immediately upon approval of this Ordinance in
accordance with the aforestated classifications and taking into account also its revenue
and profit potentials. Subsequent reclassifications may be on the basis of the preceding
six (6) months collections but not more than once a )rear.
SECTION 348. Market Rental Fees, Other Charges, - Monthly rental fees of
market stalls/booths are based on the area in square meters used and occupied by
vendors. In case there is an extension to the regular stall, the rate of fees to be imposed
shall be 20olo of the rate of the regular stall. However, in case of adveftising fees, the

Ord. No. 0291-17
same shall be computed on the size of adveftising collaterals, the rate of which is fixed
and computed on a daily basis depending upon the market classification in accordance
with the following rates:
RATES OF MARKET FEES
Market Rental Fees
Per Square Meter Per Day
Class A
Class B
Class C Class D
1. Meat
2. Dressed Chlcken and other
poultry products
3. Fish
4. Vegetables and Fruits
5. Variety or Groceries
6. Rice, Corn, other cer€als,
7. Food CourVEatery
8. Dry Goods
9. Cold Storage
10. Advertisments, including
headers, banners, awnings and
other materials
11. Miscellaneous and all other
Permanent stal ls/booths
special seruices not subject to
any pafticular rnarket fee but
shall pay rental fees for
occupancy
P40.00
36.00
38.00
16.00
16.00
16,00
16.00
16.00
16.00
16.00
P2B.50 P
26.50
25.50
10.80
10.80
r0.80
10.80
10.80
10.80
10.80
17.00
16.00
12.00
5.40
5.40
5.40
5.40
5.40
5.40
5.40
15.50
6.80
6.80
6.80
6.80
5.80
6.80
6.80
16.00 10.80 5.80 5.40
That for better located stalUstalls or booth/booths such as those facing the street or
those corner booth/stallg the following will be added to the above-prescribed fees, as
follows;
1. Front corner stall/ stalls or booth/booths
2. Front stall/stalls or booth/booths
3. Inside corner stalUstalls of booth/booths
20o/o of the rates imposed
15o/o of the rates imposed
L}o/o of the rates imposed
There shall be an automatic increase of fifteen percent (15%) effective 2018 and
every four (4) years thereafter to be computed based on the existing rates of fees to the
increasing cost of maintenance and operations.
There shalt be collected from percons, corporationg paftnerchips or entities offering
for sale merchandise in jeepneys, pick-ups, trucks, bancas, fishing boats or any other
conveyances including wholesalers and suppliers parked or displayed at or within the
vicinities of the public markets or in other places within the territorial jurisdiction of the
City of Davao, the following rates:
P13.50
13.00

Ord. No. 029L-L7
a) For rice, corin, sugar, or $milar commodlties
placed in sacks, per sack
b) For "mongos", beans and ginger placed in sacks,
per sack
c) For pigs (large) 80 kilos or more, per head
d) For pigs (medium) size 50 kilos or more, but less
than 80 kilos, per head
e) For pigs (small) size less than 50 kilos, per head
0 For goats, sheeps etc., per head
g) For chicken, ducks, or fowls, per head
h) For fresh €ggsi per dozen
i) For vegetables, placed in big baskets (bucag),
per basket
j) For fruits placed in big baskets (bucag), per
basket
k) For one jeepney, pick-up load of vegetables
and/or fruits
!) For one truckload of vegetables and/or fruits
m) For every kilo of fish, seafood and/or marine
products brought into the vicinities of the
public markets,or in other places within the
territorial jurisdiction of the City of Davao by
Producerc, Distributors or Wholesalers
n) For one truckload of charcoa!, scrapped iron,
firewoods, copra and all other similar goods/
commodities/merchandise not subject to any
pafticular fee above prescribed.
Class A
Class B
Class C
Class D
RATE OF FEES
P 4.00
8.00
20.50
12.50
8.s0
8.50
1.00
1.00
8.s0
8.s0
208.00
416.00
P0.88 per
kilo
418.00
That goods and commodities delivered to stalls, markets booths/holders and
tiendas to replenish their stocks, covered by invoices of duly licensed merchants are
exempted from the provisions of this Article.
SECTION 349. Market Fees for Ambulant/Transient Vendorc, - Market fees
for the occupancy of market premises by Ambulantflransient Vendors are hereby fixed as
follows:
Rate of Fees per square meter
Markets
or fraction thereof per day
P
8.00
6.00
4.00
2.00
Which shall be due and payable daily; provided that space occupancy shall in no
case exceed an area two (2) square meters and shall be limited only to areas not
earmarked and/or utilized as passage and/or entrance to the market building. That no
structure of any kind or nature, temporary or otherwise, shall be put up or constructed by
ambulanVtransient vendors.

Ord. No. 0291-17
That with respect to vendors who built and constructed their own structures at
their own expense prior to the effectively of this ordinance, they shall be subject to the
same rate of fee as imposed above for ambulant or transient vendors. However, an
additional fee equivalent to twenty percent (20o/o) of the prescribed applicable rate shall
be imposed for better located spaces in front, front corner and inside corner areas until
such time the government shall have been able to provide them with appropriate
buildings/structures or stalls.
That the abovementioned vendors who constructed their own structure are not
allowed to transfer their right of possession over the stall/booth to any person, except by
succession, and if they are no Ionger interested to do business thereon, they must
surrender the possession of the ffime to the Market Committee.
SECTION 350. Time for Payment / Penalties for Delinquency. - The monthly
rentals for market stalls shall become due and payable within the first twenty (20) days of
the month. Failure to pay the rental within the period required herein shall subject the
Lessee/Occupant to a surcharge of twenty-five percent (25o/o) of the amount of the rental
fee plus an interest of two percent (2o/o) per month but not to exceed thirty-six (36)
months.
The City Treasurer or his duly authorized representative shall issue an official
receipt as evidence of payment of the monthly rental fee under the name of the awardee
or transferee only as previously approved by the Market Committee.
A cash ticket shall be issued to an ambulant vendor and his name and specific
location on the market premises shall be written at the back thereof. The cash ticket shall
be good only for the space of the market premises to which the vendor is assigned. The
cash ticket issued shall be torn in half by the market inspector, one-half given to the space
occupant or vendor and the other half to be retained by the market inspector who shall
deliver the same to the market superuisor for counterchecking against the records of the
market collector of cash tickets issued.
SECTION 351. Occupancy Fee for Awardee. - Upon the award of any market
stall/booth, the awardee shall be required to pay the hereunder rates:
Class A
Occupancy Fee per stalflbooth
Depending on Market Classification
Class B
Class C
Class D
Meat SECTION
Dressed Chicken
Fish SECTION
Vegetables and Fruits
Variety or Groceries
Rice and Corn
Food Coufl/Eatery
Dry Goods
Cold Storage
Miscellaneous
P 4,000.00
4,000.00
3,200.00
2,900.00
2,800.00
2,800.00
2,800.00
2,900.00
2,800.00
2,800.00
P2,900.00
2,900.00
2,300.00
2,000.00
2,000.00
2,000.00
2,000.00
2,000.00
2,000.00
2,000.00
P1,700.00
1,700.00
1,360.00
tr,200.00
1,200.00
1,200.00
1,200.00
1,200.00
1,200.00
1,200.00
P1,400.00
1,400.00
1,100.00
960.00
960.00
960.00
960.00
960.00
960.00
950.00

Ord. No.029L-t7
SECTION 352.
Transfetee,
Transfer Fee for Transferor and Occupanq Fee for
(a) The awardee may relinquish or transfer his privilege over the stalfbooth/space
to another qualified person, after payment of Transfer Fee set forth hereunder and after
complying with other requirements set by the Market Committee, viz:
Meat SECTION
Fish SECTION
Fruits and Vegetables
Rice and Corn.
Groceries
Eateries and Ref. Parlor
Gen.Merchandise/Dry
GoodsA/arieties
Others
Class A
P 50,000.00
50,000.00
24,000.00
24,000.00
24,000.00
24,000.00
24,000.00
20,000.00
Class B
P 35,000.00
35,000.00
16,000.00
16t000.0o
16,000.00
16,000.00
16,000.00
12,000.00
Class C
P 21,000.00
21,000.00
12,000.00
12,000.00
12,000.00
12,000.00
12,000.00
10.000.00
Class D
P 17,000.00
17,000.00
8,000.00
8,000.00
8,000.00
8,000.00
9,000,00
6,000.00
(b) The transferee may acquire a stall/booth/space from an awardee after
complying with the requirements set by the Market Committee and after payment of the
Occupaney Fee as provided for in SECTION 351 of this Article.
(c) In case of succession, the Transferor is not required to pay Yransfer Fee" but
the Transferee or heir shall pay "Occupancy Fee" as set fofth in SECTION 351, hereof.
SECTION 353. Collection, - Collection in the public markeE of stall rentals, fees
from transient vendors, fees from delivery trucks and other conveyances, Mayor's Permit
fees and licenses and other fees due the City Government, shall be the responsibility of
the City Treasurer. To ensure that such responsibility is properly and effectively
discharged, all market collectors, including other personnel involved in collection function
shall directly be under the control and superuision of the City Treasurer, for collection
performance and accountabil ity.
AWARDING OF STALTS
SECTION 354. Market Committee, - There is created a permanent market
committee to be composed of the following:
1. The City Administrator
2. The City Treasurer
3. The City Legal Officer or his representative
4. Representative of the SangguniangPanlungsod
5. Representative of the Market Vendors - to be
elected by the Federation of Market Vendor's
Association in Davao City, and appointed by
the City Mayor for a term of two (2) years,
without re-appointment, unless earlier revoked for a
Chairperson
Co-Chairperson
Member
Member
Member
cause.

Ord. No. 029L-L7
The Market Committee shall have the following duties:
a. Formulate policies, rules, regulations and guidelines for market operation
and administration;
b. Conduct periodic review of city market operations;
c. Conduct the drawing of lots, raffle and opening of bids, for the
adjudication of vacant or newly constructed stalls or booths in the
City-owned Public Markets;
d. Certifythe resultsthereof, forthe approval of the City Mayor;
e. Adjudicate the transfer of stallholders from one SECTION to another or from
one sta!! to another;
f. Recommend such measures of actions as may be necessary in the
resolution of problems, in connection with the use and occupancy of
stalls, booths or spaces in the City Public Markets.
g. Decides on the revocation or cancellation of Lease Contract, closure of
stall/booth/space or eviction of vendors from the stalUbooth/space he
occupied on the ground/s of violation of specific provision of this Code.
SECTION 355. Adjudication of vacant stalls to applicant. Vacancy of stalls.
- Vacant stall shall be leased to the applicant in the following manner:
a.) Notice of Vacancy of the stall or booth shall be posted for a period of not
Iess than ten (10) days prior to the date of actual award to qualified
applicants to appraise the public of the fact that such stalls or booths are
vacant and available for lease;
Such notice shall be posted in the bulletin board of the City Hal! of Davao, in this
vacant stall as well as in a conspicuous place in the public market concerned.
NOTICE
NOTICE is hereby given that the stal/booth, stalls/booths No.
Building or
Pavilion No. _
of the
Market is/are vacant (or wi!! be vacant on
20_).
Any person 2L years of age or more and is not legally
incapacitated and meeting the qualifications set by the City Market Committee, desiring
to lease the stall/booth or stalls/booths, shall file an application thereto on the prescribed
form (copies may be obtained from the office of the City Administrator during office hours)
on or before 12:00 noon of
20-.,
after which time no more
applications will be enteftained. In case there are more than one applicant, the award of
the lease of the vacant stalUbooth shall be determined thru raffle/drawing of lots, to be
conducted on
at
by the City
Market Committee. The stalUbooth or stalls/booths are in the _Section,
and is intended for the sale of
b) A non-refundable application fee of Four Hundred Pesos (P400.00) shall be
collected from each applicant, to cover necessary and incidental expenses relative thereto.
SECTION 356, Awardee shall perconally administer his/her
stall/booth/space, - Any person, who has been awarded a right to lease a market stall
in accordance with the provision of this Code shal! occupy, administer and be present
personally at his/her stalfbooth/space. Helper/s to be employed by the stallholder may
include his/her spouse, parents and children. The helper/s excepting spouses, parents

Ord. No.029t-L7
and children, shall be registered with the Market Superuisor conformably with the latter's
form. Provided that under no circumstances, said person/s shal! have any commercial
relation or transaction with the Lessee.
No awardee or Lessee of Market StalUBooth/Space shall sublease the same,
however, the awardee may transfer his privilege over the stall/booth/space upon approval
from the Market Comrnittee and after compliance of some requirements as provided for in
this Code. A person other than the stallholder, his registered paftner or helper found
selling in the latter's stall/booth/space is prima facie evidence of subleasing and shall
subject the stallholder to outright revocation of the lease by the City Administrator.
SECTION 357. Pafinerchip with stallholder- - A rnarket stallholder who enters
into business paftnership with any party, after he has acquired the right to lease such
stalUbooth/space has no authority to transfer to his paftner or paftners the right to occupy
the stall. Provided, however, that in case of death or any legal disability of such
stallholder to continue his business, the suruiving paftner maybe authorized to continue
occupying the stalUbooth/space for a period not exceeding sixty (50) days within which to
wind the business of the paftnership. If the suruiving paftner is otherwise qualified to
occupy a market stalfbooth/space under the provisions hereof and the spouse, parent/s
son/s daughter/s of the deceased is not applying for the stall, he shall be given the
preference to continue occupying the stalflbooth/space concerned if he applied therefore.
The partnership rnust exist at the time the stall/booth/space is awarded to stallholder
through raffie.
SECTION 358. Death of Awatdee; Sucession, - If an adjudicated regular
stallholder dies, or become physically incapacitated permanently for work, the suruiving
spouse, it living together, may succeed an adjudicated stallholder in the occupancy of the
stalfbooth/space thereof. Provided, however, that if the stallholder leaves no spouse, or
the spouse left is physically incapacitated, any legitimate son or daughter, as the case may
be, upon whom devolves the support of the family of the deceased or incapacitated
stallholder, shall be the one next in line to succeed said stallholder. Provided, fufther, that
in case of succession, such spouse, son or daughter is a citizen of the Philippines or not
otherwise disqualified to apply for such stalUbooth/space.
SECTION 359, Limitations,
(a) Any stallholder, transient or ambulant vendor shall not be allowed to lease or
occupy more than one (1) stall/booth/space. However, he/she may be allowed one (1)
more stall/booth/space in another market, but in no case, shall he/she be allowed to lease
or occupy more than a maximum of two (2) stalls/booths/spaces in the entire City of
Davao.
It shall be the duty of the Market Superuisor to see to it that this lirnitation is strictly
obserued. Any act discovered or found to be in violation of this limitation, shall
immediately be repofted to the City Administrator or his authorized representative.
(b) No stallholder/person in the City Public Markets shall construct, repair, renovate
or undeftake any kind of construc,tion of stalUbooth without first securing a permit therefor
in writing from the City Administrator or his duly authorized representative. Stalfbooth
constructed/repaired or renovated, in violation of this SECTION, may be summarily

Ord. No. 029L-17
removed or destroyed by the CiW Administrator or his duly authorized representative or
his agent and/or employee.
(c) The transferor who availed of SECTION 352 hereof is prohibited to pafticipate in
any raffling of stalfbooth/space nor acquire the same as transferee in any City-owned
public markets.
(e) Any extension of the stalflbooth/space may be allowed with a written approval
from the CiU Administrator or his duly authorized representative provided that it is not
more than one (1) foot of the aisle, movable, and not concrete or permanent structure
except at the Rice SECTION wherein they may be allowed with a maximum of two (2) feet
intended for rice box or display.
In case of sidewalk sunounding the market building, an extension may be allowed
with a maximum of one-third (U3) of the total length with the same requirements
aforecited hereto.
SECTION 360. Appeal, - Any applicant who is not satisfied with the adjudication
made by the Market Cornrnittee of the stalfbooth applied for by him, may file with the City
Mayor, through the City Administrator, an appeal therefrom and the decision of the City
Mayor shall become final after a lapse of fifteen (15) days.
SECTION 361. filarket Hottts, - All public markets may be open from 2:00 a.m.
and shall be closed at 10:00 p.m. daily. However, this provision shall be obserued with
maximum tolerance under meritorious cases.
SECTION 362. Losses/ Dama ges/ Inj ury of sta llh olderc/ Rep rcsentative, The
City Government shall not be responsible for any loss or damage or injury which
stallholderc or any representative incur in the city markets by reason of fire, theft or force
majuere, or by reason of their business operation. Any merchandise, goods, wares or
commodities left in the City Markets after closure time shal! be at the risk of the
stallholders.
It shall, however, be the duty of the Market Superuisor and his subordinates,
particularly, the security personnel, to exercise utmost vigilance and care to prevent any
loss in the City Market and, for this purpose, the Market Superuisor and his subordinates
shall have authority to apprehend and turn over to the police any person or persons
caught stealing or committing any offense in the City Markets.
SECTION 363, Abandoned StalUAfticles. -Any stall/booth in any City Markets,
which has been closed for thifi (30) consecutive days and no payment for at least one
(1) month shall be considered abandoned and the City Administrator through the Market
Committee shall automatically revoke the lease to such stall/ booth/space.
(d) The awardee, stallholder, lessee, transferee shall not be allowed to use or
engaged in business on the occupied stall/booth/space other than for what it is intended
or its purpose, i.e., Market SECTION.

Ord. No.029t-L7
Any afticle abandoned in any city markets in violation of any provisions of this Code
shall be deemed a nuisance and it shall be the duty of the Market Superuisor and his
subordinates to take custody thereof. In case the afticles are claimed within twenty-four
(24) hours thereafter, they shall be returned to their owners upon payment of safekeeping
fee equivalent to 2Ao/o of the total selling price or fair market value of the items or product
being abandoned, unless, they have so deteriorated as to constitute a menace to public
health, in which case, they shall be disposed of in the manner directed by the City
Administrator or his duly authorized representative, who may also, at his discretion, cause
the criminal prosecution of the guilty party or merely warn him/her against future
violations. If the afticles have not deteriorated and are not claimed within the time herein
fixed, said afticle/afticles shall be sold at public auction and the proceeds thereof,
disposed of in accordance with !aw.
SECTION 364, Peddling and Hawking, - No person shall peddle, hawk, sell,
offer or expose for sale any articles in the passageway or aisles used by buying public in
any City Markets.
To avoid unjust competition, peddlers or hawkers shall not be permitted to offer for
sale, in the city markets and their surroundings within a radius of two hundred (200)
meters where goods are sold or exposed for sale in the stalls, or booths of said markets,
neither shal! they be permitted to expose or sell merchandise on sidewalks, courts (patios)
or places designed and/or intended for the passage of the public to the City Markets.
Market Officials and, personnel and policemen detailed in the vicinity of the City Market
shall exercise strict vigilance on this matter and are hereby enjoined to strictly comply with
these provisions.
SECTION 365. Loafing, loiturtng, begging and the like, - No person, not
having lawful business in or about any City Market shall idly sit, lounge, walk or lie in or
about the premises of the same, nor shall any person beg or solicit alms or contribution of
any kind in any city market, nor shall any person abet mendicancy by giving alms directly
to mendicants in any city market.
No person shall annoy or obstruct market ernployees in the discharge of their
duties, nor shall parents allow their children to play in or around the stalls or booths in the
market premises.
Gambling or any game of chance shall be strictly prohibited within the premises of
the rnarkets.
SECTION 366. fntuxicating drinks; dispensing and seruing of, - No person
shall drink, serve or dispense liquor or any intoxicating drink withln the premises of the
City Market. Any violation thereof, shall subject to offender to the penal provisions of this
Code and.his or her lease award shall at once be revoked upon the approval of the Market
Committee.
SECTION 367. Weigh@ Measures and Reflectorized Light/Gadgets, - Any
stallholder found violating the provisions of the Revenue Code and/or City Ordinance of
the City of Davao r,egarding weights and-measures shall, for the firS offense, be required
to correct any deficienry of said weights/measure, severely warned and/or reprimanded
and, for the second offense, his/her stall/booth/space lease cancelled/revoked, and shall
be evicted from the stalUbooth/space and be perpetually barred from applying for, leasing

Page 2t2
Ord. No. 0291-L7
and/or occupying any stalfbooth/space in any public market owned and/or operated by
the City Government of Davao, for which a blacklist shall be prepared. These sanctions
shall be in addition to the penalties imposed by other applicable laws at the discretion of
the Court.
Any stallholder is not permitted to use and/or install colored lights, gadgets,
devices, colored cellophane or other means of deceit to pass on andlor make it appear
that the fish, meat vegetables and others that they are selling or dispose are fresh, new
and fit for human consumption.
SECTION 368. Loose Animals, - No dogs or other animals be left astray in any
city market. The Market Superuisor or his authorized representatives are hereby
empowered to seize such stray animals and impound them in the City Pound.
SECTION 369. Remoual of construction and alteration of stalls/booths,
(a) No lessee shall remove, construct repair or alter the original structure of any
stall/booth or electrical wiring or water connection without prior written permit from the
City Administrator or his authorized representative.
(b) In case of approved removal on original structure of stall/booth and or
restoration of electrical connection of stalflbooth which source of energy is provided by the
city, the stallholder shall pay a Restoration Fee equivalent to 100o/o of its cost to be
determined by the City Engineer and Alteration Fee equivalent to 5% of its cost in case of
alteration or modification.
(c) In the event the original structure is rernoved, altered, or modified without prior
written permit or approval from the City Administrator or his duly authorized
representative, the same will be restored to its original state by the stallholder at his
expense.
SECTION 37O, Revocation"of Lease, -
(a) Failure to pay the rental fees within the first twenty (20) days of the month, in
case of monthly payment or for five (5) consecutive days, in case of daily payments
(arkabala), shall be sufficient cause for the revocation of the lease, and/or for the
ejectrnent-of the stallholder from his/her stalfbooth or space, by the City Adrninistrator or
his duly authorized representative through Market Committee Resolution and in
accordance with the law on due process.
(b) The lease may also be revoked in violation of any provisions hereof and other
allied laws by the City Adrninistrator or his duly authorized representative through the
Market Committee Resolution and with due process.
SECTION 37L, Ejected stallholderc, disqualified to participate in the
Drawing of LoB. - Should a stallholder be ejected from his/her stalfbooth for cause,
as provided in this Ordinance, he/she shall be absolutely disqualified from filing another
application for the lease of said stalflbooth or any other stal!/booth in any public market of
the City.

Ord. No.029L-L7
Section372. Prohibitions.
(a) The peddling or sale outside the public market site or premises of foodstufts
which easily deteriorate Iike flsh and meat, is hereby prohibited.
(b) In no case shall anyone, stallholders or outsider/s convert the stal!/booth or
any portion of the market premises into temporary or permanent dwelling place where
they eat, sleep and use the public market toilets and baths as their own.
Any violation of this specific provision shall subject the violator ejection from the
market premises, if the violator is a stallholder and that his stall/booth shall be considered
vacant and raffled and awarded to deseruing applicants, conformably with this Article.
MAINTENANCE OF CITY MARKETS
The following provisions for the maintenance of City Markets shall be carefully and
strictly obserued.
SECTION 373. Cleaning,of Market Premi*s, - The Market Superuisor shall see
to it that the market is always clean and in an excellent sanitary condition, including the
aisles, divisions, stalls, floors, walls and equipment as wel! as the whole tract of land
belonging to the market. The cleaning of the market premises should be done before the
buyers staft coming in to the market. The market building and ground should at all times
be kept free from garbage and rubbish.
SECTION 374. Public Toileb and Washing Facilities, - Every market shall be
provided with a public toilet with two compaftments, one for men and another for women,
and shall be kept at all times in o<cellent and sanitary condition. Toilets as well as the
necessary and adequate washing facilities must be located near the market to enable
customers to clean up.
SECTION 375, General lighting facilities, - Adequate general lighting facilities
shall be provided in the markets. However, stallholders shall provide their own light in
their respective stalls at their own expense, subject to existing regulations,
SECTION 376, Garbage Receptacles, - All markets shall be provided with
receptacles of the fly and rat-proof type for the collection of garbage and rubbish. The
receptacles shall be placed in the most conspicuous and convenient places in the market.
Individual stallholders shall provide themselves with their own receptacles in order to
avoid littering in their premises. No stallholders or other persons shall place refuse on the
floor, stalls or in any place other than the garbage receptacles.
SECTION 377. Cooked/Raw Food Protection From Contamination, Cooked
food should be serued hot and at all times protected against contamination by flies and
other insects and dirt. Likewise, raw foods, such as beef, fish, etc., shall at all times be
protected from flies and other insects.
SECTION 378. Construction/Care of stallilbooths, tables and other
frrturcs, - All foods shail be sold frorn stalls, booths, tables or fixtures rnade of or
constructed according to plans or designs approved by the City Engineer and the City

Ord. No. 029t-t7
Health Officer. All fixtures should be scrubbed nightly and their surfaces kept smooth
always so that food or pafticles thereof will not lodge in cracks or in r,ough places to
decompose.
SECTION 379, Cleaning of stalls/booths or spaces at end of business day,
At the close of each day's business and before leaving, stallholders and transient vendors
shall clean their stalfbooth or spaces. They shall also remove all difi materials and place
rubbish and garbage in containers placed for the purpose in the market.
SECTION 380. Abandonment of perishable goods, - Leaving of discarded or
unsold highly perishable goods, such as meat, fish and other sea foods in the stall or in
any place within the rnarket premlses shall be unlawfrrl and-any petson found to have
abandoned such goods in or about the stalls shall be liable under the pena! provisions of
this Code without prejudice to the revocation of the lease if the person is a stallholder.
SECTION 381. Posting of Rules and Regulations, - The Market Supervisor shall
post in each city rnarket the rules and regulations in English or Filipino or Cebuano
concerning the sanitation and good order in the city markets, the manner of Ieasing of
stalls therein, the privilege and obligations of stallholders and such other rules and
regulations as he may deem necessary in the operations and maintenance of the public
market. He shall furnish such stallholders with a copy in English or Filipino or Cebuano of
the rules and regulations herein mentioned.
SECTION 382. Penal Provisions.
a) Surcharges. Any person occupying or using a space in the public market without first
paying the fees herein above provided, shall be subject to the payrnent of market fees in an
amount equivalent to three times the regular rate fixed for the space occupied. Any person
occupying more space than what is duly leased to him shall pay double the regular rate for
such e<tra space and shall remove any unauthorized extension made, if there be any, and
any person who fails to pay the monthly rent within the time fixed here shall pay a penalty
of twenty-five percent (250/o) of the rent due plus annual intercst upon the unpaid rentailfee
at the rate of foufteen percent (L4o/o) per annum from the due date until fully paid.
b) Fines/Imprinnment. Any violation of this Afticle, shall be penalized with a fine of not
exceeding One Thousand (P1,000.00) Pesos or imprisonment of not more than six (6)
months, or both at the discretion of the court. If the violation is comrnitted by a juridical
entity, the president or percons in charge shall be penalized.
c) Canellation of Leas Right and Ejectment. Likewise, any stallholder who fails to pay
the monthly or daily ftes herein prescribed and such other regulatory fees mandated by
other laws or ordinances or violates any provisions of this afticle shall be sufficient cause for
the revocaUon of his/her lease right and his/her ejectment from the stall/booths or space so
occupied. The revocation or cancellaUon of such Iease right may be effected by the City
Administrator, after obseruance of due process.
d) The Market Supewisor may issue a Notice of Violation/s to the Awardee, Lessee,
Transferee, Actual Occupant or Transient Vendor, indicating therein the specific provision/s
so violated, give reasonable time to conect or effect it and endorse or transmit to the
Market Committee in case of non-compliance to the same.

Ord. No. 029L-t7
Afticle Twelve. - Slaughter and Corral Fees
SECTION 383. fmposition of Fees, -There shall be imposed the following:
(a) Permit Fw to Slaughter. Before any animal is slaughtered whether in a
cityowned/operated, or privately-owned slaughterhouse, a permit therefor shall first be
secured from the City Veterinarian or his duly authorized representative, and the
corresponding permit fte collected by the City Treasure/s Office, as follows:
Per Head
Large cattle
Hogs a.) For Lechon
b.) Others
GoaVSheep & All Others
Chicken & Fowls
P 100.00
s0.00
30.00
20.00
1.00
(c) Slaughterhou* Fee. There shall be collected fees for the slaughter of animals and
the use of corals in accordance with the provisions of this Article at the slaughterhouse
operated by the City Government.
(d) Slaughter Fe. For the use and seruices of the slaughterhouse at Ma-a and other
public slaughterhouses, the City Treasurer or its deputized perconnel shall collect a
Slaughter Fee, as follows:
Per Head
For Public Consumption:
Large cattle
Hogs
GoaVSheep & All others
Chicken/fowls
(a) Defeathering
(b) Evisceration
(c) Entrail Separation and
Gizard Cleaning
(d) Leg descaling
Large cattle
Hogs
GoaVSheep & All others
Chicken and fowls
P 300.00
200.00
100.00
5.00
1.00
2.00
3.00
Provided, that Slaughter Fees herein shall be increased yearly at the rate of Five
Percent (5olo) of the above schedules, starting ftom the year 2018 and every year
thereafter.
(e) Corral Fee. Shall be collected by the City Treasurer for the animals to be slaughtered
which are deposited and kept in conals owned by the City, viz:
Per Head
P s0.00
20"00
10.00
1.00

Ord. No.029L-I7
(e) Delivery Fee Charge. Al! carcasses and meat products of animals slaughtered at
Ma-a slaughterhouse shall be delivered to their respective market or wholesaler outlets,
through an accredited meat delivery van and corresponding delivery feeslcharges shall be
collected by the City Treasurer, as follows:
Per Head
2.
Matina/ Poblacion/ Agdao/ Buhangin:
Large Cattle
Hogs/Swine
GoaVSheep & All others
Chicken/fowls
Other Markets:
Large Cattle
Hogs/Swine
GoaVSheep & All others
Chicken/fowls
Post-Moftem Fee
CatUe
Carabaos/Buffaloes
Hogs: a) Lechon
b) Others
Goats, Sheep/Deer
Poultry
Ice Crusher
Chilling facilities:
Large Cattle
Hog
Goat / Sheep
for Chicken
P 10.00 per block
200.00 per head
100.00 per head
50.00 per head
500,00 per 1,000 heads or
a fraction thereof
P 100.00
50.00
30.00
1.00
P 150.00
80.00
50.00
1.00
(0
Ante-Mortem and Post-Mortem Fees. There is hereby collected ante-moftem and
post-moftem fees for the slaughter of animals, in City-operated slaughterhouses or those
authorized by the City Government as follows:
Per Head
Ante-Mortem Fee
Cattle
Carabao/Buffaloes
Hogs/Swine
Goat, Sheep/Deer
Poultry
P 25.00
25.00
15.00
s.00
1.00
P 70.00
70.00
50.00
50.00
20.00
1.00
(g) Other Fees and Charges.
(1.) For the use of the ice crusher and chilling facilities at Ma-a Slaughterhouse,
the following fees and charges shall be collected by the City Treasurer:
(2.) Washing of Hogs
10.00 per head

Page2IT
Ord. No.029l-t7
(3.) Executive Order t37 SECTION 4 (a) states that only transpoft vehicles
accredited by the City Veterinarian shall be used to deliver meat products within the City.
Whereas, SECTION 4 (e) states that the licensing and regulation of butchers, meat vendors,
meat dealers, and meat stalls/shops is to be exercised by the City, therefore the following
fees and charges are hereby imposed:
Meat & Meat Products Delivery Van
Meat Shop Operator
Meat Processor
Meat Dealer
Vendor
Butcher
Dresser
Cutter
Fish Inspection Fee
Red Tide Laboratory Fee
P 500.00/year
150.0O/year
150.00/year
150.O0/year
150.00/year
50.00/year
50.0O/year
50.0O/year
1.00/kg.
200.O0/test
SECTION 384. Plae of Slaaghten - The slaughter of any kind of animal for sale
to or consumption of the public shall be done only in the slaughterhouse unless otherwise
authorized by the City Government. The slaughter of animals intended for home
consumption may be done elsewhere; provided, that the animals slaughtered shal! not be
sold or offered for sale.
SECTION 385. Time of PaynenE
(a) Permit Fee. the fee shall be paid to the City Treasurer upon application for a permit
to slaughter with the City Veterinarian.
(b) Slaughter Fee. The fee shall be paid to the City Treasurer or his authorized
representative before the slaughtered animal is removed from the public slaughterhouse, or
before the slaughtering of the animal if it takes place elsewhere outside the public
slaughterhouse.
(c) hral Fee. The fee shall be paid to the City Treasurer before the animal is kept in
the city corral or any place designated as such. If the animal is kept in the corral beyond
the period, the fees due on the unpaid period shall first be paid before the same animal is
released ftom the corral.
SECTION 386. Administrative Provision,
(a) The slaughter of any kind of animal intended for sale shall be done only in the city
slaughterhouse designated as such by the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod. The slaughter of
animals intended for home consumption may be done elsewhere, except large cattle which
shall be slaughtered only in the public slaughterhouse. The anima! slaughtered for home
consumption shall not be sold.
For unbranded cattle that have not yet reached the age of branding, the City
Treasurer shall require such evidence as will be satisfactory to him regarding the ownership
of the animal for which permit to slaughter has been requested.

Ord. No. 029L-L7
For unbranded cattle of the required age, the necessary ceftificate of ownership
and/or transfer shall be issued, and the corresponding fees collected therefor before the
slaughter permit is granted.
(c) Before any animal is slaughtered for public consumption, a permit therefor shall be
secured from the City Veterinarian or his duly authorized representative, through the City
Treasurer. The permit shall bear the date and month of issue and the stamp of the City
Veterinarian, as well as the page of the book in which said permit number is entered and
wherein the name of the permittee, the kind and sex of the animal to be slaughtered
appears.
(d) The permit to slaughter as herein required shall be kept by the owner to be posted in
a conspicuous place in his/her stall at all times.
SECTION 387. Ptohibition, - It shal! be unlawful for any person, natural or
juridical, to sell or buy, fur business or commerce, within the territorial jurisdiction of the
City, unprocessed carcasses or meat of animals and fowls slaughtered in places other than
the City operated slaughterhouses or those authorized by the National Meat Inspection
Service (NMIS).
Permit to slaughter shall not be granted nor the conesponding fee collected on
animals condemned by the City Veterinarian.
SECTION 388. Confrscation: Other Penalty, - All such unprocessed carcasses or
meat butchered at slaughterhouses other than the Cityoperated slaughterhouse or those
authorized by the National Meat Inspection Seruice (NMIS), shall be confiscated or seized in
favor of the government and shall be disposed of in accordance with law.
Afticle Thifteen, City Terminal Fees and Charges
SECTION 389, The Rates of Fees and Charges
a.) PUJ's
b.) Vans and baby buses
c.) Large buses
a.) Category A
Stalls and stands traversing Candelaria
and Maya streets with entrances
outside the terminal
b.) Category B
Stalls within the terminal
c.) Category C
Rate for land use
d.) Adveftisement materials, signages through
Billboards, Neon lights, Posters, Tarpaulin
minimum of six (6) months renewable
Terminal Fees:
P 100.00/day
75.00/trip
200.00/trip
Rental Charges:
P 5,000.00 a month
P 4,000.00 a month
10.00 sq./m. per day
or a fraction thereof
10.00 sq./m. per day

a.) Parking fee
DCOTT Hostel
b.) All Peddlers
c.) Pofter
d.) Loading and unloading inside DCOTT such as:
1.) TrucK
2.) Va ns/Jeepneysfl'axi/M u ltica bs
3 . ) Moto rrycl esfFricycles/ Bi cyd e/ Push ca fts
Airconditioned
Non-airconditioned
Ord. No. 0291-t7
Other Fees:
P20.00 for first 3 hours, P5.00 every
succeeding hr
100.00 sQ./m. per day
10.00
10.00
Aticle Foufteen. Pasalubong Center
SECTION 390. Who may qualify as a tenant. - Any person or enUty residing in
Davao City, who is engaged in the business of producing locally-made Davao City delicacies
and food products, goods or other souvenir items using local and indigenous raw materials
may apply as tenant of the Center. An application fee of Four Hundred Pesos (P,+00.00)
shall be charged per application to rent space.
Afticle Fifteen. Davao City Recreation Center
SECTION 391. Rates for the use of the Center, - The following rental rates
shall be imposed to any individual, group, association, NGO's or Government entity/office
for the use of the Almendras Gym - Davao City Recreation Center, to wit:
a.) Boxing Promotions
b.) Stage and Hall Presentations
c.) Basketball
1. Basketball League
2. Basketball Practices
d.) Functions
e.) Facilities
1. Aircon
2. Game Clock
3. Plastic Chairs
4. Sound System
P 25.00/ sq.rn. per day
15.50/ sq.m. per day
P 20,000.00/day (non-aircon)
20,000.00/day (non-aircon)
20,000.00/day (non-aircon)
800.00/hour (non-aircon)
20,000.00/day (non-aircon)
250.00/hour/unit
200.00/game
5.OO/each/game
5,000.00/day
CHAPTER 6. . COMMUNIW TAX
SECTION 392. fmposition of Tax, - There shall be imposed a community tax on
persons, natural or juridical, residing in the City.
50.00
20.00
s.00

Ord. No. 029L-t7
SECTION 393. fndividaals liable to Community Tax, - Every inhabitant of the
Philippines who is a resident of this city, eighteen (18) years of age or over who has been
regularly employed on a wage or salary basis for at least thirty (30) consecutive working
days during any calendar year, or who is engaged in business or corporation, or who owns
real property with an aggregate assessed value of One Thousand (P1,000.00) Pesos or
more, or who is required by law to file an income tax return shall pay an annual
comrnunity tax of Five (P5.00) Pesos and an annual additional tax of One Peso (P1.00) for
every One Thousand Pesos (P1,000.00) of income regardless of whether from business,
exercise of profession or from propefi which in no case shall exceed Five Thousand Pesos
(P5,000.00).
In the case of husband and wife, the additional tax herein imposed shall be based
upon the total propefi owned by them and the total gross receipts or earnings derived by
them.
SECTION 394. Juridical Percons Liable to Community Tax - Every corporation
no matter how created or organized, whether domestic or resident-foreign, engaged in or
doing business in the Philippines whose principal office is located in this city shall pay an
annual Community Tax of Five Hundred Pesos (P500.00) and an additional tax, which in
no case, shall exceed Ten fiousand Pesos (P10,000.00) in accordance with the following
schedule:
(a) For every Five Thousand Pesos (P5,000.00) wofth of real propefi in the
Philippines owned by it during the preceding year based on the valuation used in the
payment of real property tax under existing laws, found in the assessment rolls of this city
where the rea! propefi ls situated - Two (P2.00) Pesos; and
(b) For every Five Thousand Pesos (P5,000.00) of gross receipts or earnings
derived by it ftom its business in the Philippines during the preceding year - Two (P2.00)
Pesos.
The dividends received by a corporation from another corporation shall, for the
purpose of the additional tax, be considered as part of the gross receipts or earnings of
said corporation.
SECTION 395. Exemption,
The following are exempted from the Community Tax:
(a) Diplomatic and consular representatives; and
(b) Transient visitors when their stay in the Philippines does not exceed three (3)
months,
SECTION 396. Place of Payment - The Community Tax shall be paid in the
Office of the City Treasurer or to the deputized Barangay Treasurer.
SECTION 397, Time of Payment, - Penalties for Delinguencyi
(a) The Community Tax shall accrue on the Rrst (1") day of January each year which
shall be paid not later than the last date of February of each year.

Page 22L
Ord. No. 029t-L7
(b) If a person reaches the age of eighteen (18) years or otherwise loses the benefit of
exemption on or before the last day of June, he shall be liable for the community tax on
the day he reaches such age or upon the day the exemption ends. However, if a person
reaches the age of eighteen (18) years or loses the benefit of exemption on or before the
last day of March, he shall have twenty (20) days to pay the Community Tax without
becoming delinquent.
(c) Persons who come to reside in the Philippines or reach the age of eighteen (18)
years on or after the first 11't ) day of July of any year, or who cease to belong to an
exempt class on or after the same date, shall not be subject to the Community Tax for
that year.
(d) Corporations established and organized on or befsre the last day of June shall be
liable for the Community Tax for that year. But corporations established and organized on
or before the last day of March shall have twenty (20) days within which to pay
Community Tax without becoming delinquent. Corporations established and organized on
or after the first day of July shall not be subject to the Community Tax for that year.
(e) If the tax is not paid within the time prescribed above, there shall be added to the
unpaid amount an interest of twenty-four percent (24o/o) per annum from the due date
until it is paid.
SECTION 398. Community Tax Certificate, - A Community Tax Certificate shall
be issued to every person or corporation upon payment of the Community Tax. A
Community Tax Ceftificate may also be issued to any person or corporation not subject to
the Community Tax upon payment of One Peso (P1.00).
SECTION 399. Presentation of Community Tax Certifrcate on Certain
Occasions,
(a) When an individua! subject to the Community Tax acknowledges any document
before a notary public, takes the oath of office upon election or appointment to any
position in the government seruice; receives any license, ceftificate, or permit from any
public authority; pays any tax or fee, receives any money from public funds, transacts any
official business; or receives any salary or wage from any person or corporation, it shall be
the duty
business
any person, officer or corporation with whom such transaction is made or
or from whom any salary or wage is received to require such individua! to
exhibit the
The
Tax Ceftificate.
with the
of a voter.
(c)
of Comrnunity Tax Ceftificate shall not be required in connection
through its authorized officers, any corporation subject to the Community
any license, certificate, or permit from any public authority, pays any
fee, receives money from public funds, or transacts other official business, it
be the duty of the public official with whom such transaction or business is
I or done, to require such corporation to exhibit the Community Tax Certificate.
Tax
tax
shal!

Ord. No. 0291-L7
(d) The Community Tax Ceftificate required in the two preceding paragraphs shall be
the one issued for the current year, except for the period from January until the
fifteenth (15) of April each year, in which case, the ceftificate issued for the
preceding year sha!! suffice.
SECTION 400. Collection and Allocation of Proceeds of the Communifi Tax,
(a) The City Treasurer shall deputize the Barangay Treasurers, subject to existing laws
and regulations, to collect the Community Tax payable by individual taxpayers in their
respective jurisdictions; provided, however, that said Barangay Treasurer shall be bonded
in accordance with existing laws.
(b) One Hundred Percent (100o/o) of the proceeds of the Community Tax actually and
directly collected by the City Treasurer shall accrue entirely to the General Fund of this
City.
The proceeds of the Community Tax collected through the Barangay Treasurers
shall be apportioned as follows:
(1) Fiflry (50o/o) percent shall accrue to the General Fund of the City; and
(2) Fifty (50) percent shall accrue to the barangay where the tax is collected.
CHAPTER 7. OTHER SOURCE OF REVENUE
Share from the Development and Utilization of National Wealth
SECTION 401. Share in the Proceeds from the Development and Utilization
of the National Wealth, -The City shall have an equitable share in the proceeds derived
from the utilization and development of the Nationa! Wealth within its respective area.
SECTION 4O2, Amount of fihare, - In addition to the Internal Revenue Allotment
(IRA), the City shall have a share of forty percent (40olo) of the gross collection derived by
the National Governrnent frorn the preceding fiscal year from mining taxes, royalties,
foresfiy and fishery charges and such other taxes, fees, or charges, including related
surcharges, interests, or fines, and from its share in any co-production, joint venture or
production sharing agreement in the utilization and development of the nationa! wealth
within its territorial jurisdiction.
SECTION 403. Share fiom any Government Agency -and GovemmentOwned or-Controlled Corporation (GOCC), -The City shall have a share based on the
preceding fiscal year from the proceeds derived by any government agency or
Government-owned or -{ontrolled Corporation engaged in the utilization and development
of the national wealth based on the following formula, whichever will produce a higher
share:
(a) One Percent (1olo) of the gross sales or receipts of the preceding calendar
year; or

Ord. No. 029L-L7
(b) Forty Percent (40Yo) of the mining taxes, royalties, forestry and fishery
charges and such other taxes, fees or charges, including related surcharges, interests, or
fines.
(c) In case such other agency or Government-owned or Controlled Corporation
(GOCC) shall authorize and transfer their rights to private corporations to
engage in the utilization of the development of national wealth , the said private
corporatior, by substitution, becomes jointly and severally liable to pay the City
Government of Davao the above stated share.
The share of the City Government of Davao in the Development and Utilization of
National Wealth is covered by the provisions under SECTION 402.
SECTION 4O4, Remittance of the Share, - The share of the City shall be
released, without need of any fufther action, directly to the City Treasurer, as the case
may be, on a quarterly basis within five (5) days after the end of each quarter, and which
shall not be subject to any lien or holdback that may be imposed by the National
Government for whatever purpose.
SECTION 405. Development and Livelihood Projec&, - The proceeds from the
share of the City shall be appropriated by the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod to finance local
development and livelihood projects. Provided, that at least eighty percent (800/o) of the
proceeds derived from the development and utilization of hydrothermal, geothermal, and
other sources of energy shall be applied solely to lower the cost of electricity in the area
where the source of energy is located.
C} APTER 8. GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS
Afticle One. - Administrative Provisions
SECTION 406. Permit to operate, - All persons natural or juridica! subject to
business tax under this Code and/or persoRs, agents and brokers transacting business for,
their principals and/or representing firms or offices of business establishments shall
secure an annual permit to operate from the Office of the City Mayor, not later than
January 20th of the succeeding year. Persons engaging in business for the first time shall
secure the permit before the staft of the business.
A permit to operate a business shall be granted only if:
a. The applicant therefore has no unsettled tax obligation whatsoever to the
government;
b. The business establishment, if any, conform to the zoning regulations and
safety and health requirements of the City wherein the same is located;
and
c. The applicant is not disqualified under provisions of law to establish,
maintain and operate the business.
The City Treasurer shall recommend the issuance of, and the City Mayor shall issue,
the permit to operate.

Ord. No. 029L-L7
SECTION 4O7. Submission of List of Employees, - All operators of business
establishments (natural or juridical person), as well as administrative officers of national
government units including government owned or controlled corporation found in the City
are required to submit during renewal period of each year a list of persons under their
employ, stating therein the following:
1. name and address;
2. profession;
3. professional tax paid if any, O.R. No., date and place of issue;
4. position/designation;
5. total salaries, wages and allowances per annum;
6. Comrnunity Tax Ceftificate number, date, place of issue and
amount paid.
All associations composed of professional and/or having an occupation or calling
shall submit the list of their members to the City Treasurer and/or his authorized
representative not Iater that the 15th day of December of each year indicating the
following:
1. name and address;
2. profession;
3. professionaltax paid, O.R. No., date, place of issue, and amount
paid.
All business operators and/or private individual (natural or juridical) securing a
building construction permit and/or ceftificates of completion; occupancy from the City
Engineer's Office shall submit the business permit of the contractors who contracted the
said project together with the ceftification of the City Treasurer that the corresponding
taxes of the said contractor have been paid. For this purpose, the City Building Official is
directed to require the above-mentioned requirement before the issuance of
bu i ld i ng/construction permit a nd ceftifi cate of com pletion/occu pa nry.
SECTION 408, Withholding of Business Tax - Reguircment of Withholding.
- Every person/firm/entity making payment to any businessmen/entity doing business
within the territorialjurisdiction of Davao City without the necessary business permit issued
by Davao City Government shall deduct and/or withhold three percent (3olo) of the contract
price in case of contractor and similar businesses; likewise three percent (3olo) for all
payments of purchases in case of manufacturers, producers, assemblers, repackers,
wholesalers, distributors, dealers, retailers and other similar businesses to ensure payment
of taxes due to the City Government.
It shall be the duty of every person/firm/entity mentioned above, to
demand/inquire for the business permit of any person; transacting business with them
for the purpose of compliance issued by the City Mayor of Davao, of this Afticle.
SECTION 409. Display of Official Receipt evidencing payment of the tax or
ftee,- The official receipt showing payment of the taxes, fees and other impositions and
the valid permit issued by the Office of the City Mayor as provided by this Ordinance shall
be displayed on a conspicuous place in the establishment or office used in connection with
the conduct of the business or the exercise of the privileges.

Ord. No. 029t-L7
Failure on the paft of the taxpayer to display such valid permit issued by the City
Mayor and the corresporlding official receipts representlng payrnent of taxes and fees and
other imposition, shall subject the said taxpayer to a fine of One Hundred Pesos (P100.00)
a day, payable upon demand of the City Treasurer and/or his authorized representative.
The fine shall continue until such time the taxpayer will be able to display the said permit,
but in no case shall it exceed Five Thousand Pesos (P 5,000.00).
SECTION 410. Retircment of Business, - Retirement made within the first
twenty (20) days of a calendar quarter, in the case of a taxpayer who is allowed to pay his
tax or fee quafterly and within the period when the annual tax or fee may be paid without
any surcharge in the case of a taxpayer required to pay the tax or fee by the year, shall
not subject the retiring taxpayer to any further obligation, save for any deficiency that may
be found pursuant to the preceding paragraph. Otherwise, the taxpayer shall be subjected
to the next quarterly or annual tax, as the case may be, plus twenty-five percent (25o/o)
surcharge thereon and two percent (2o/o) monthly interest on the unpaid amount until the
tax, fee, or charge including surcharges is fully paid, but in no case shall the total interest
on the unpaid amount or a poftion thereof exceed thirty-six (36) months.
Sec,tion 4r.1. Tax or fee for fraction of a quarter or yean - Unless otherwise
provided by this Ordinance, a person shall pay the full quafterly or annual tax or fee, as
the case may be, notwithstanding the fact that he stafts the business, the practice of the
profession, and the pursuit of the calling or the exercise of the privilege at any time other
than the beginning of the quarter of the year.
SECTION 412, Penal Provisions,
Except as otherwise specifically provided in the Code, a fine of not less than One
Thousand Pesos (P 1,000.00) nor more than Five Thousand Pesos (P5,000.00) or
imprisonment of not less than one (1) month nor more than six (6) months or both, at the
discretion of the court, is hereby imposed for violation of any of the provisions hereof.
Afticle Two - Collection and Accounting of Taxes and Other Impositions
SECTION 4tr3. Tax Period and Manner of Payment - Unless otherwise
provided in this Ordinance, the tax period for all local taxes, fees and charges imposed
under this ordinance shal! be the calendar year, although the same may be paid in
quafterly installments, except as otherwise provided.
SECTION 4L4. Accrual of the tax, - The taxes, fees and other impositions
provided by this Code shall accrue on the first day of January of each year as regards
subjects then liable therefore. However, new taxes, fees or charges, or changes in the
rate of existing taxes, fees, or charges shall accrue on the first day of the quafter next
following the effectivity of the Ordinance imposing such new levies or taxes.
SECTION 4tr5. Time for paymenf, {Jnless otherwise specifically provided in this
Code, all the taxes, fees and charges imposed in this Code due and accruing to the City
Government of Davao shall be paid within the first twenty (20) days of January or of each
subsequent quafter, as the case may be.

Ord. No. 029t-17
SECTION 416. Surchatges for Late Payment and fntercst on Unpaid Tax, -
Except as otherwise specifically provided in this ORDINANCE, failure to pay the tax, fee or
charge within the time required herein, shall subject the taxpayer to a surcharge of
twenty-five (25olo) of the amount of tax, fee or other imposition due not paid on time and
an interest at the rate not exceeding two (20lo) percent per month of the unpaid taxes,
fees or charges including surcharges, until such amount is fully paid but in no case shall
the total interest on the unpaid amount exceed thifi-six (36) months.
SECTION 4L7. Assessment and Collection, -Assessment and collection of all
taxes, fees and charges due to this City shall be the sole duty and responsibility of the City
Treasurer or his duly authorized representatives.
Unless. othenruise specifically provided in this, Code or under existing laws and
ordinances, the City Treasurer is hereby authorized, subject to the approval of the City
Mayor, to promulgate rules and regulations for the proper and efficient administration and
collection of taxes, fees and charges herein levied and imposed.
SECTION 418. fssuance or Receipfs, - It shall be the duty of the City Treasurer
or his authorized representative to issue the required official receipt to the person paying
the tax, fee or charge wherein the date, amount, name of the person paying and the
account for which it is paid, are shown.
The Ordinance number and the specific SECTION thereof upon which collections are
based shall invariably be indicated on the face of all official receipts acknowledging
payment of taxes, fees or charges.
SECTION 419. Record of Percons Paying Revenues,
trt shall be the duty of the City Treasurer to keep a record, alphabetically arranged
and open to public inspection during office hours, of the names of all persons paying city
taxes, fees and charges. He shall as far as practicable, establish and keep current the
appropriate tax roll for each kind of tax, fee or charge provided in this Code.
SECTION 42O, Accounting of Collections,
Unless otherwise provided in this Code and other existing law and ordinances, all
monies collected by viftue of this Code shall be accounted for in accordance with the
provisions of existing laws, rules and regulations and credited to the General Fund of the
City.
SECTION 42L, Examination of boolcs of accounB and peftinent reords of
businessmen by the City Treasuren
For the purpose of effective enforcement and collection of the taxes, fees and other
impositions provided by this Code, the city treasurer may, by himself or through any of his
deputies duly authorized in writing, examine the books of accounts and other peftinent
records of any person, partnership, corporation or association or other business
establishments doing businesses within the city, and subject to city taxes, to ascertain,
assess and collect the true and correct amount of the tax due from the taxpayer
concerned. Such examination shall be made during regular business hours once every year
for every tax period, which shall be the year immediately preceding the examination. Any

Ord. No.029t-L7
examination conducted pursuant to the provisions of this SECTION shall be ceftified to, by
the examining official and such ceftificate shal! be made of record in the books of accounts
of the taxpayer concerned.
In the case of examination herein authorized to be made by a duly authorized
deputy of the city treasurer, there shall be written authority issued to the former which
shall specifically state the name, address and business of the taxpayer whose book of
accounts and peftinent records are to be exarnined, the date and place of such
examination, and the procedure to be followed in conducting the same.
The book of accounts kept by the business establishments pursuant to the
provisions of the Nationa! Internal Revenue Code shall be sufficient for determining the
correct arnount of taxes, fees, charges and other impositions and the establishment shall
no longer be required to keep another, or separate book of accounts for the purpose. For
this purpose, the records of the Revenue District Office of the Bureau of Internal Revenue
shall be made available to the City Treasurer, his deputy or duly authorized representative.
The revenue district officer of the Bureau of Internal Revenue of Davao CiW shall
make available all the data needed in the course of examination of books of account of
business establishments especially the reproduction of the audited financial statement
attached in the income tax return upon official request by the City Treasurer of Davao.
SECTION q22, Keeping of cash register book and rcgistration of books of
accounb, - All corporations, companies, paftnership or persons using cash register
machines shall keep a cash register book to record all transactions of the cash register slip
or sheet for the day and shall preserve said record as prescribed by SECTION 203 of the
National Internal Revenue Code. The said book and records shall be subject to
examination and verification of the Local Treasury Officers.
All books being used by corporations, companies, paftnership or persons including
subsidiary books shall be registered in the office of the City Treasurer upon the start of
business operations and every first working day or the first month of calendar or fiscal
year as the case may be. Likewise, all official receipts cash sales, cash invoices, delivery
receipts and other receipts used in the collection shall be registered in the office of the
City Treasurer, Davao City, before using the same. Failure on the paft of corporations,
companies, paftnership or perons to register their book of records and official receipt,
cash sales, cash invoice, charge invoice, delivery receipt and other receipts used in the
collection shall be punished pursuant to the penal provision of this Code.
The book of accounts and other pertinent records of tax exempt organizations of
grantees of tax incentives shall be subject to examination by the City Treasurer and/or his
duly authorized representative for purposes of ascertaining compliance with the conditions
under which they have been granted tax exemption on the tax incentives, and their tax
liability, if any.
In case of government- owned and contnrlled corporations which are involved in
the utilization and development of the national wealth within the jurisdiction of Davao City,
as well as National Government Agencies collecting mining taxes, royalties, forestry and
fishery charges, and such other taxes, fess including related surcharges, interest or fines,
and from its share in any co-production, joint venture on production sharing agreement in
the utilization and development of the national wealth within the territorial jurisdiction of

Ord. No. 029t-L7
Davao City shall be subject to examination of books of accounts and other pertinent
records to determine the share of the City Government and barangay concerned as
provided for under SECTION 289,29A,291,292 and 293 of the Local Government Code of
1991, otherwise known as Republic Act 7L60.
Any person who refuses to cooperate or fails to submit any document requested by
the City Treasurer or his duly authorized representative in connection with the examination
of Books of Accounts within the period stated in the Letter of Authority, which shall not be
less than fifteen (15) calendar days from receipt thereof, shal! be punished in accordance
with the penal provision of this Code. In case of corporation, paftnership or association,
the President Vice President Directors, Treasurer or any officer or employee responsible
for the violation shal! be liable for such offense.
Failure on the paft of any person (natural or juridical) to register in the City
Treasurer their book of accounts, book of records and ofificial receipt, cash sales, cash
invoice, delivery receipt and other receipts used in the collection within fifteen (15)
working days from time of filing the application for new or renewal of business permit shall
be administratively fined Five Thousand Pesos (P5,000.00).
SECTION 423. fnvoice RequiremenE,
It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, company or corporation engaged in the
business mentioned under the provisions of this Code and other businesses, trades or
occupation operated within the territorial jurisdiction of Davao City, not to issue a duly
registered and serially numbered commercial invoices showing among other things the
name or style of the business, if any, and business address, for every sale or seruice
rendered worth Five Pesos (P5.00) or more, and it will be unlawfu! for anyone of them to
misdeclare their invoices or sales books or other books of accounts their true and correct
sales.
SECTION 424, Authority to enter into a comprumise agneemenf. - The City
Treasurer shall have the authority to enter into a compromise agreement on the
mode/manner of payment of delinquent taxpayers, which shall not be more than one (1)
year. In no case shall the City Treasurer enter into a compromise agreement without the
taxpayer issuing a post-dated check corresponding to the agreed mode/manner of
payment.
In case the delinquent taxpayer is an alien, in addition to the penalties prescribed in
SECTION 417 hereof, the permit to engage in the business shall be recommended to the
City Mayor for revocation.
Any person, other than the merchant himself, who is found helping or conniving
with the merchant in the commission of the violation of the preceding provisions shall also
suffer the corresponding penalties prescribed under the above preceding SECTION.
A government employee in any instrumentality of the government is found abetting,
helping or conniving with the merchant in the commission of the crime or violations, aside
from the penalties, prescribed hereof, he shall also be administratively charged or
recommended for dismissal from the government seruice.

Ord. No. 0291-17
Afticle Three. - Civil Remedies for Collection of Revenues
SECTION 4725, Application of Article, - The provisions of this Article and
remedies provided herein shall be used, as far as their nature permits, for the collection of
any delinquent taxes, fees, charges or other impositions.
SECTION 426. City Government's Lien, - Local taxes, fees, charges and other
revenues herein provided constitute a lien, superior to all liens or charges or encumbrance
in favor of private parties not only upon any propefi which may be subject tothe charge
but also upon propefi used in the conduct of business, pursuit of the occupation, practice
of profession or calling or exercise of the privilege with respect to which the lien is
imposed. The lien may only be extinguished upon full payment of the delinquent local
taxes, fees and charges including related surcharges and interest.
SECTION 427. Civil Remedies, - The civil remedies for the collection of local
taxes, fees or charges, and related surcharges and interests resulting from delinquency
shall be:
(a) By administrative action through distraint of goods, chattels or effects, and
other personal propefties of whatever character, including stocks and other securities,
debts, credits, bank accounts, and interest in and rights to personal property, and to levy
upon real property and interest in or rights to real propefi; and
(b)
By judicial action,
SECTION 428. Dis'traint of Perconal Propefi, The rcmedy by distraint
shall proced as follows:
(a) SEIZURE - upon failure of the person owing any local taxes or charges to
pay the same at the time required, the City Treasurer or his deputy may, upon written
notice, seize or confiscate any personal property belonging to that person or any personal
property subject to the tax lien, in sufficient quantity to satisff the tax, fee, or charge in
question, together with any increment thereto, incident to delinquency and expense of
seizure. In such case, the City Treasurer or his deputy shall issue a duly authenticated
ceftificate based upon the records of his office showing the fact of delinquency and the
amount of the tax, fee or charge and penalty due. Such ceftificate shall serue as sufficient
warrant for the distraint of personal property aforementioned, subject to the taxpayer's
right to claim exemption under the provisions of existing laws. Distraint perconal property
shall be sold at publk auction in the manner herein provided for.
(b) ACCOUNING OF DISTRAINED GOODS - The officer executing the distraint
shall make or cause to be made an account of the goods, chattels or effects distrained, a
copy of which signed by himself shall be left either with the owner or person from whose
possession the goods or effects were taken or at the dwelling or place of business of that
person and with someone of suitable age and discretion, to which list shall be added a
statement of the sum demanded and a note of the time and place of sale.
(c) PUBLICAION - The officer shal! forthwith cause a notification to be
exhibited in not less than three (3) public places in the territory of the local government
units where the distraint is made, speciffing the time and place of sale and the articles
distrained. The time of sale shall not be less than twenty (20) days after notice to the

Ord. No. 0291-L7
owner or possessor of the properlry as above specified and the publication or posting of
the notice. One place for the posting of the notice shatl be at the Office of the City Mayor.
(d) RELEASE OF DISTRAINED PROPERTY UPON PAYMENT PRIOR TO SALE . If
at any time prior to the consummation of the sale all proper charges are paid to the officer
conducting the sale, the goods or effects distrained shall be restored to the owner.
(e) PROCEDURE OF SALE - At the time and place fixed the notice, the officer,
conducting the sale shall sell the goods or effects so distrained at public auction to the
highest bidder for cash. Within five (5) days after the sale, the City Treasurer shall make a
repoft of the proceedings in writing to the CiW Mayor.
Should the property distrained be not disposed of within one hundred twenty (120)
days from the date of distraint, the same shall be considered as sold to the local
government unit concerned for the amount of the assessment made thereon by the
Committee on Appraisal and to the extent of the same amount, the tax delinquencies shall
be cancelled.
Said Committee on Appraisal shall be composed of the City Treasurer as Chairman
with a representative of the Commission on Audit and the City Assessor as members.
(0 DISPOSffiON OF PROCEEDS - The proceeds of the sale shall be applied to
satisff the tax, together with the increments thereto incident to delinqu€f,ry, and the
expenses of the distraint and sale. Any residue over and above what is required to pay the
entire claim shal! be returned to the owner of the propefi sold. The expenses chargeable
upon the seizure and sale embrace only the actual expenses of seizure and preseruation of
the property pending the sale, and no charge shall be imposed for the services of the City
Treasurer or his deputy. Where the proceeds of the sale are insufficient to satisff the
claim, other propefties may, in like manner, be distrained until the full amount due
including all expenses is collected.
SECTION 429. Letry on Real Prupefi, - After the expiration of the time
required to pay the delinquency tax, fee or charge, real propefty may be levied on before,
simultaneously or after the distraint of personal property belonging to the delinquent
taxpayer. To this end, the City Treasurer, shall prepare a duly authenticated certificate
showing the name of the taxpayer and the amount of the tax, fee or charge, and penalty
due from him. Said certificate sha!! be operated with the force of a legal execution
throughout the Philippines. Levy shall be effected by writing upon said ceftificate of
descripUon of the propedry upon which levy is made. At the same time, written notice of
the levy shall be mailed to or serued upon the Assessor and Register of Deeds of the city
who shall annotate the levy on the tax declaration and ceftificate of title of the property,
respectively, and the delinquent taxpayer or, if he be absent from the city, to his agent or
the manager of the business in respect to which the liability arose, or of there be none, to
the occupant of the propefty in question.
In case the levy on real property is not issued before or simultaneously with the
warrant of distraint on personal property, and the personal propefi of the taxpayer is not
sufficient to satisff his delinqu€rcy, the City Treasurer, shall within thitly (30) days after
execution of the distraint, proceed with the levy on the taxpayer's real propefi.

Ord. No.029L-L7
A repoft on any lery shall, within ten (10) days after receipt of the warrant, be
submitted by the levying ofEcer to the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod.
SECTION 430. Penalty for Failure to fssue and Execute Warrant, - Without
prejudice to criminal prosecution under the Revised Penal Code and other applicable laws,
the City Treasurer, if he fails to issue or execute the wanant of distraint or levy after the
expiration of the tirne prescribed, or if he is found guilty of abusing the exercise thereof by
competent authority, shall be automatically be dismissed from the seruice after due notice
and hearing.
SECTION 431. Advertisement and Sale, - Within thirty (30) days after levy, the
City Treasurer shall proceed to publicly adveftise for sale or auction the propefi or a
usable poftion thereof as may be necessary to satisff the claim and cost of sale; and such
advertisement shall cover a perlod at least thirly (30) days. It shall be effected by posting
a notice at the main entrance of the city hall, and in a public and conspicuous place in the
barangay where the real property is located, and by publication once a week for three (3)
weeks,in a newsBaper of general circulation in the city. The adveftisement shall contain
the amount of taxes, fees or charges, and penalties due thereon, and the time and place
of sale, the name of taxpayer against whom the taxes, fees or charges are levied, and a
shoft description of the property to be sold. At any time before the date fixed for the sale,
the taxpayer may stay the proceedings by paying the taxes, fees, charges, penalties and
interests. If he fails to do so, the sale shall proceed and shall be held either at the main
entrance of the City Hall or on the property to be sold, or at any other place as determined
by the City Treasurer, conducing the sale and specified in the notice of sale.
Within thirly (30) days after the sale, the City Treasurer or his deputy shall make a
report of the sale to the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod, and which shall form paft of his
records. After consultation with the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod, the City Treasurer shall
make and deliver to the purchaser a certificate of sale, showing proceedings of the sale,
describing the propefi sold, stating the name of the purchaser and setting out the exact
amount of all taxes, fees, charges and related surcharges, interests or penalties. Provided,
however, that any excess in the proceeds of the sale over the claim and cost of sales shall
be turned over to the owner of the propefi. The City Treasurer may, by a duly approved
ordinance, advance an amount sufficient to defray the costs of collection by means of the
remedies provided for in this Ordinance, including the preseruation or transportation in
case of personal propefi, and the adveftisement and subsequent sale, in cases of
personal and real propefi including the improvements thereon.
SECTION 432, Redemption of Propefi Sold, - Within one (1) year ftom the
date of sale, the delinquent taxpayer or his representative shall have the right to redeem
the property upon payment to the City Treasurer of the total amount of taxes, fees or
charges, and related surcharges, interests penalties from the date of delinquency to date
of sale, plus interest of not more than two percent (2o/o) per month on the purchase price
from the date of purchase to the date of redemption. Such payment shall invalidate the
certificate of sale issued to the purchaser and the owner shall be entitled to a certificate of
redemption from the City Treasurer or his representative.
The City Treasurer or his deputy upon surrender by the purchaser of the ceftificate
of sale previously issued to him, shall forthwith return to the latter the entire purchase
price paid by him plus the interest of not more than two percent (2o/o) per month herein
provided fur, the portion of the cost of sale and other legitimate expenses incurred by him,

Ord. No. 029t-L7
and said property thereafter shall be free from the lien of such taxes, fees or charges and
other related surcharges, interest and penalties.
The owner shall not, however, be deprived of the possession of said propefi and
shall be entitled to the rentals and other income thereof until the expiration of the time
allowed for its redemption.
SECTION 433, Final Deed of Purchasen - In case the taxpayer fails to redeem
the propefty as provided herein, the City Treasurer shall execute a deed conveying to the
purchaser so much of the propefi as has been sold, free from liens of an taxes, fees,
charges, related surcharges, interests and penalties. The deed shall sufficiently recite all
the proceedings upon which the validity of the sale depends.
SECTION 434, Purchase of Pruperty by the City for Want of Bidden - ln
case there is no bidder for the real property adveftised for sale as provided herein or if
the highest bid is for an arnount insufficient to pay the taxes, fees or charges, related
surcharges, interests, penalties and costs, the City Treasurer shall purchase the property
on behalf of the city to satisff the claim and within two (2) days thereafter shall make a
repoft to his pr-oceedings which shal! be reflected upon the records of his office. It shall be
the duty of the Registrar of Deeds concerned upon registration with his office of any such
declaration of foffeiture to tranSer the title of the foffeited propefi to this city without
the necessity of an order from a competent court.
Within one (1) year from the date of such forfeiture, the taxpayer or any of his
representative, may redeem the property by paying to the City Treasurer the full amount
of taxes, fees, charges and related surcharges, interests or penalties, and the costs of
sale. If the property is not redeemed as provided herein, the ownership thereof shall be
fully vested on the city.
SECTION 435, 'Resale of Real Es,tate Taken for Taxes, Fees or Charges, -
The SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod may, by duly approved ordinance, and upon notice of not
less than twenty (20) days, sell and dispose of the real propefi acquired as mentioned in
the preceding paragraph at public auction. The proceeds of the sale shall accrue to the
general fund of this city.
SECTION 436, Collection of Delinquent Taxe* ftes, Charytes or Other
Revenues Thtough Jadicial Action, - The city may enforce the collection of delinquent
taxes, fees, charges or other revenues by civil action in any court of competent
jurisdiction. The civil action shall be filed by the City Treasurer within the period prescribed
in SECTION 194 of the Republic Act No. 7160, as implemented under Afticle 284 of the
Implementing Rules and Regulations (IRR).
SECTION 437. Further Distraint or Letry, - The remedies by distraint and levy
may be repeated if necessary until the full amount due, including all expenses is collected.
SECTION 438. Perconal Propefty Exempt from Distraint of Levy. - The
following property shall be exempt from distraint and the lely, attachment or execution
thereof for delinquency in the payment of any local tax, fee or charge, including the
related surcharge and interest:

Ord. No. 029L-L7
1.
Tools and the implements necessarily used by the delinquent taxpayer in the
trade or employment;
2.
One (1) horse, cow, carabao, or other beast of burden, such as the
delinquent taxpayer may select, and necessarily used by him in his
occupation;
3.
His necessary clothing, and that of all his family.
4.
Household furniture and utensils necessary for housekeeping and used for
that purpose by the delinquent taxpayer, such as he may select, of a value
not exceeding Ten Thousand Pesos (P10,000.00)
5.
Provisions, including crops, actually provided for individual or family use
sufficient for four ( 4 ) months;
6.
The professional libraries of doctors, engineers, lawyers and judges;
7.
One fishing boat and net, not exceeding the total value of Ten Thousand
Pesos (P10,000.00) the lawful use of which a fisherman earns his livelihood;
and
8.
Any material or afticle forming part of a house or improvement of any real
propefi.
Article Four. - Taxpaye/s Remedies
SECTION 439. Periods of Assessment and Colledion,
(a) Local taxes, fees, or charges shall be assessed within five (5) years from the
date they became due. No action for the collection of such taxes, fees or charges whether
administrative or judicial shall be instituted after the expiration of such period: Provided,
that taxes, fees or charges which have accrued before the effectivity of the Local
Government Code of 1991 may be assessed within a period of five (5) years from the date
they became due.
(b) In case of fraud or intent to evade the payment of taxes, fees or charges,
the same may be assessed within ten (10) years from discovery of the fraud or intent to
evade payment.
(c) Local taxes, fees, or charges may be collected within five (5) years from the
date of assessment by administrative or judicial action. No such action shall be instituted
after the expiration .of said period, Provided however, that taxes, fees and charges
assessed before the effectivity of the Local Government Code of 1991 may be assessed
within a period of three (3) years from the date of assessment.
(d) The running of the periods of prescription provided in the preceding
paragraphs shall be suspended for the time dur.ing which:
1.
The Treasurer is legally prevented from making the assessment of collection;
2.
The taxpayers requests for a reinvestigation and executes a waiver in writing
before expiration of the period within which to assess and collect; and
3.
The Taxpayer is out of the country or otherwise cannot be located.
SECTION 44;O. Prutest of As*sstnent, - When the City Treasurer or his duly
authorized representative finds that correct taxes, fees or charges have not been paid, he
shall issue a notice of assessment stating the nature of the tax, fee or charge, the amount
of deficiency, the surcharges, interests and penalties.

Ord. No. 029t-17
Within sixty (60) days from the receipt of the notice of assessment, the taxpayer
may file a written protest with the City Treasurer contesting the assessment; otherwise,
the assessment shall become final and executory. The City Treasurer shall decide the
protest within sixW (60) days from the time of its filing. In case where the protest is
denied, the taxpayer shall have thirty (30) days from the receipt of denial or from the
lapse of the sixty-day period prescribed herein within which to appeal with the court of
competent jurisdiction otherwise the assessment becomes conclusive and unappealable.
SECTION 4dL. Payment Under Protest, - No protest shall be enteftained unless
the taxpayers first pays the tax. There shall be annotated on the tax receipts the words
"paid under protest." The protest in writing must be filed within thifty (30) days from
payment of the tax with the City Treasurer who shall decide the protest within six$ (60)
days from receipt.
SECTION 442, Claim for Refund of Tax CrcdiL - No case or proceeding shall
be maintained in any couft for the recovery of a tax, fee, or charge erroneously or illegally
collected until a written claim for refund or credit has been filed with the City Treasurer.
No case or proceeding shall be enteftained in any court after the expiration of two (2)
years from the date of payment of such tax, fee or charge, or from the date the taxpayer
is entitled to a refund or credit.
SECTION 443, Legality of this Code, - Any question on the constitutionality or
legality of this Ordinance may be raised on appeal within thifty (30) days from the
effectivity thereof to the Secretary of Justice who shall render a decision within siXry (60)
days ftom the date of receipt of the appeal: Provided, however, that such appeal shall not
have effect of suspending effectivity of this Ordinance and the accrual and payment of tax,
fee or charge levied herein: Provided finally, that within thirty (30) days after the receipt
of the decision or the lapse of the sixty-day period without the Secretary of Justice acting
upon the appeal, the aggrieved pafi may file the appropriate proceeding with a couft of
competent jurisdiction.
Afticle Five. - Miscellaneous Provision
SECTION 444. Power to Levy Other Taxes, Fees or Chatges, - The City may
exercise the power to levy taxes, fees or charges on any base or subject not otherwise
specifically enumerated herein or taxed under the provisions of the National Interna!
Revenue Code, as amended, or other applicable laws: Provided, that the taxes, fees or
charges shall not be unjust, excessive, oppressive, confiscatory or contradictory to
declared national policy. Provided, fufther, that the ordinance levying such taxes, fees or
charges shall not be enacted without any prior public hearing conducted for the purpose.
SECTION 445. Limitations on the Taxing Powerc of the City, - Unless
otherwise provided herein, the exercise of the taxing powers of the City shall not extend to
the levy of the following:
(a)
(b)
(c)
Income tax, except when levied on banks and other financial institutions;
Documentary stamp tax;
Taxes on estates, inheritance, gifts, legacies and other acquisition mortis
causa, except as otherwise provided herein;

Ord. No. 029L-L7
(d) Customs duties, registration fees of vessels and wharfage on wharues,
tonnage dues, and all other kinds of customs fees, charges and dues except
whafage on wharues constructed and maintained by the City;
(e) Taxes, fees and charges and other impositions upon goods carried into or
out of, or passing through, the territorial jurisdictions of the City in the guise
of charges for whafage, tolls for bridges or otherwise, or other taxes, fees
or charges in any form whatsoever upon such goods or merchandise;
(f)
Taxes, fees or charges on agricultural and aquatic products when sold by
marginal farmers or fishermen;
(g) Taxes on business enterprises certified to by the Board of Investments as
pioneer or non-pioneer for a period of six (6) and four (4) years, respectively
from the date of registration;
(h) Excise taxes on aftlcles enumerated under the National Internal Revenue
Code (NIRC), as amended, and taxes, fees or charges on petroleum
products;
(i)
Percentage or value-added tax (VAT) on sales, bafters or exchanges or
similar transactions on goods or services except as otherwise provided
herein;
0)
Taxes on the gross receipts of transpoftation contractors and persons
engaged in the transportation of passengers or freight by hire and common
carriers by air, land or water, except as provided in the Local Government
Code (RA 7160).
(k) Taxes on premiums paid by way of reinsurance or retrocession;
(l)
Taxes, fees or charges for the registration of motor vehicles and for the
issuance of all kinds of licenses or permits for the driving thereof, except
tricycles;
(m) Taxes, fees or other charges on Philippine products actually exported, except
as otherwise provided herein;
(n) Taxes, fees or charges on Countryside and Barangay Business Enterprises
and Cooperatives duly registered under Republic Act No. 5810 and Republic
Act No. 6938, otherwise known as the "Cooperative Code of the Philippines"
respectively;
(o) Taxes, fees or charges of any kind on the National Government, its agencies
and instrumentalities, and local government units;
(p) Taxes, fees or charges to those whose income are below poverty line, as
ceftified by the City Social Seruices and Development Office (CSSDO); and
(q) Fees or charges to Students who seek documents in compliance with their
educational requirements, duly ceftified by the School Head concerned.
SECTION 446. Publication of the Revenue Code, - Within ten (10) days after
its approval, a ceftified copy of this Ordinance shall be published in full for three (3)
consecutive days in a newspaper of local circulation and the same be posted in at least
two (2) conspicuous and publicly accessible places within City Hal! premises.
SECTION 447. AuthoriU to Adjust Tax Rates, - The SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod
shall have the sole authority to adjust tax rates as prescribed herein not oftener than once
every five (5) years, but in no case shall such adjustment exceed ten percent (10o/o) of the
rates fixed under this Ordinance.

Ord. No. 029t-I7
CHAPTER 9. GENERAL PENAL PROVI$ONS
SECTION 448, General Penal Provision, - Any person or persons who violate
any of the provisions of this Ordinance not herein otherwise covered by any specific
penalty or who shall otherwise violate the rules or regulations promulgated under
authority of this Ordinance shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of not less than
One Thousand Pesos (P1,000.00) nor more than Five Thousand Pesos (P5,000.00), or
imprisonment of not less than one (1) month nor more than six (6) months, or both at the
discretion of the court.
If the violation is committed by any juridical entity, the President, General Manager,
or the individual entrusted with the administration thereof at the time of the commission
of the violation shall be held responsible or liable therefor.
Punishment by a fine or imprisonment as herein provided for shall not relieve the
offender from the payment of the tax, fee or charge imposed under this Ordinance.
CHAPTER 10, FINAL PROVISIONS
SECTION 449. *parabili$ Clause, -If, for any reason, any SECTION or provision
of this Ordinance shall be held to be unconstitutional or invalid by competent authority,
such judgment or action shall not affect or impair the other sections or provisions thereof.
SECTION 450. Applicability Clau*, -All other matters relating to the impositions
in this Ordinance shall be governed by peftinent provisions of existing laws and other
ordinances.
SECTION 451. Repealing Clause, - AII ordinances, rules and regulations, or paft
thereof, in conflict with, or inconsistent with any provisions of this Ordinance are hereby
repealed or modified accordingly.
SECTION 452, Effectivitv, - This Ordinance shall take effect after its publication in
ful! for three (3) consecutive days in a newspaper of local circulation, and after its posting
in at least two (2) conspicuous places at the entrance of City Hall not later than five (5)
days after approval thereof.
ENACTED, on the 9th day of October 20t7, by a unanimous vote of all the
Members of the Sanggunian present, there being a quorum.
CERTIFIED CORRECT:
t
cltk?ib).rffo,
Secretary to the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod
(City Government pepartffi Head II)
Lf

Ord. No. 029L-L7
ATTESTED
ATTESTED:
J.
QUITAIN JR.
Councilor
Presiding Officer
APPROVED:
DEC 2 0 10lT
20t7
z,
City Mayof
,U
T.
City Administratof
/