20u' City Council
36h Regular Session
SERIES of 2023
PRESENT:
Vice Mayor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
l. Melchor B. Quitain Jr.
- Presiding ffiicer
Marissa S. Abella
Nilo M. Abellera lr.
Bai Hundra Cassandra Dominique N. Advincula
Bernard E. Al-ag
Wilberto E. Al-ag
Dante L. Apostol Sr.
Conrado C. Baluran
Jessica M. Bonguyan
Louie lohn l. Bonguyan
Pilar C. Braga
Augusto Javier G. Campos III
Jonard C. Dayap
Edgar P. Ibuyan Jr.
Edgar R. Ibuyan Sr.
Richlyn Justol-Baguilod
Diosdado Angelo Junior R. Mahipus
Jaffar U. Marohomsalic
Bonz Andre A. Militar
Temujin B. Ocampo
Myrna G. LDalodo-Ortiz
Albefto T. Ungab
Lorcnzo Benjamin D. Villafuerte
Trisha Ann J. Villafuerte
lesus Joseph P. Zozobrado III
Luna Maria Dominique S. Acosta
Al Ryan S. Alejandre
ABSENT:
Councilor
Councilor
- On Maternity Leave
- OB- Attended the
"FiestaKucha Kadayawan
2023' fur the lst Davao
Region Creative Innovation
Summit at the Philippine
Women's College
- OB- Attended the Tribal
Kasalan ng Barangay for the
Araw ng Barangay Gumitan
Councilor Rodolfo M. Mande
ORDINANCE NO. 0298.23
SERIES of 2023
AN ORDINANCE AMENDTNG ORDINANCE NO. 0861-22, SERIES OF
2022, EilTTTLED *Ail ORDrI{ANCE ADOPTTNG THE DAVAO CITY
CoMPREHENSTVE LAND USE PLAN (CLUP) 2019-2028, AMENDTNG
o RDTNANCE NO. 0546- t3, SERTES OF 2OL31 SPECTFTCAIIY ARTTCIE
v, zoNE REGULATTONS, SECTION 12.6.16- URBAN ECOLOGTCAT
EN HANCEM ENT SUB-ZONE (UEESZ)
Republic of tire PhiliPPines
CitY of'Davao
Office of the SANGGUNIANG Panlungc0d

' '
page2ofT
OJd. No. 0298-23
,rl
' Be it ordained by the Honorable SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod of Davao City, in session
assembled, that:
SECTION 1. EtE - This Ordinance shall be known as "AN ORDINANCE
AMEilDIilG ORDINANCE NO. 086,'.22, SERIES OF 2022, ENTITLED OAN
ORDIilANCE ADOPTING THE DAVAO CITY COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE PLAN
(ctuP) 2oL9-2O2& AMENDTI{G ORDTNANCE NO. 0546-13, SERTES OF 2OL3.,
SPECTEICALIY ARTICLE V, ZONE REGUTATIONS, SECTTON 12.6.16- URBAN
ECOTOGTCAL ENHANCEMENT SUB-ZONE (UEESZ);
SECTION 2. SECTION 12.6.16- URBAN ECOLOGICAL ENHANCEMENT
SUB.ZONE (UEESZ) IS HEREBY AMENDED TO READ AS FOLLOWS;
12.6.16. Urban Ecological Enhancement Sub-Zone (UEESZ) - Thls referc
to areas intended for massive greening program for ecologica! enhancement in
major urban zone as precautionary and proactive approach to climate change
adaptation and part of risk reduction management program against flooding,
landslide and inundation as the edges and slopes of the ridge or hill are found
to be highly susceptible to landslide; and therefore the same is hereby declared
protected at all times and any development in the area must strictly comply
with the requirements in Afticle XI, SECTION 63.2.
Al lowa ble Uses/ Activities
1. All uses/activities in Forcst Zone (FZ).
2. Nattrrc and Ecotourism projecB, the maximum allowable building
footprint of which ts 25o/o of the total UEESZ classified land area for
such project. Amenities and facilities within the eco tourism project
that can be allowed inside the UEESZ area shall be, but not limited to,
the following: refreshment parlor; restaurants; outdoor spofts gadgets
rentaflretail shop; elevated walkway trail; hanging bridges; view
decVobseruatory spaces; rappelling and rock climbing facilities;
botanical garden; endemic animal sanctuary; petting zoo; function
hall; wellness facility; chapel or oUrer simihr structures already
enumerated. At least 75olo of the total land area of the eco-tourism
park shall be devoted to greening or natural landscape and nature
preservation activities.
3. Improvement and maintenance of all waterway easement.
4. Other greening programs which include, among others:
- Enhancement of biodiversity proiects
- Paftial off-site greening program in compliance with the required
10o/o or 15o/o More Green Space in development projects.The off-site
green space shall be a maximum of 50o/o of the required green space,
and should be classified as currcntly paft of the UEESZ. It must be
developed as a green space before donation and turn over to the city
for upkeep and maintenance.
- Grcen space developed as a direct and consummated land
donation to the City Government of Davaot greening
program which shall entitle the donor a minimum (floor space credit)
multiplier of one (1) or a maximum multiplier of three (3), depending
on the potentials of the donated property as Park or Green Space.

Ord. No. 0298-23
The Floor Space Credit (FSC) is computed as total donated UEESZ land
area in square meters multiplied by the approved factor of the joint
committees of the City Parks Board and the Buildings and Structures
Height Regulation Committee (BSHRC). The Floor Space Credit
Ceftificate is issued to the donor by the Buildings and Structures Height
Regulation Committee (see City Ordinance No. 027-t9, SERIES of 2019).
The FSC in square meters can serye to oftet billable floor spaces
generated above the regular building height limit of veftical projects that
are to be built in areas appropriately zoned for the use intended which
is outside the UEESZ. The full or partial benefits of the FSC Certificate
can be transferred or reassigned by the grantee or the land donor to
developer/s of veftical buildings that occeed the regular height limits set
by the city.
- Green space as POPOS or Privately-Owned Public Open Spae which
shall entiUe the owner a Floor Space Credit equivalent or equal to the total area
being developed as POPOS. An annotation to the land title stating that the area
shall perpetually be utilized as POPOS and that repurposing the area to business
activities that are no longer POPOS in nature shall mean cancellation of FSC
Certificate (if not yet used in the FSC oftetting scheme) or shall result to the
owner payrng the local treasury for the monetary mlue of the FSC as used in
the oftetting scheme in veftical building projects that are above the regular
height limit set by the city. FSC derived from a POPOS scheme is also a
transfenable document and instrument.
5. Reforestation Development ProjecE
6. Residential purposes, provided that individual private landownerc within the
UEESZ's moderate risk to low risk landslide areas or a combination of moderate
risk to low risk, and high risk to landslide features and who do not wish to
include their lot or participate in any land consolidation activity for revenuegenerating Eco-Tourism Projects in the UEE Sub-Zone may exercise their right
to construct a residential building, subject to all conditions stated in the Building
Regulations.
7 . SuMivision llevelopment Projects
Developers intending to pursue subdivision projecfls outside the Shrine
Hills area or in the 2019 expanded UEESZ that is largely within moderate risk
or lower risk to landslide, may be allowed to apply br permits and eventually
proceed with the approved plans, provided A, B, and C of the building
regulations of the UEESZ SECTION are follovrred, including the Ffoor Area Ratio
limitations.
In case where the area to be developed is a combination of moderate
risk to low risk, and high risk to landslide features, the high risk to landslide can
only be designated as open space or green space in the subdivision
development.
8. Utilities, Transpoftation, and Seruices
Water, power and telecom service installations and utilities and transpott
line improvement or rehabilitation within the UEESZ shall be allowed provided
A, B, and C of the Building regulations provided herein are followed accordingly.
9. Activities Approved under the Additional Allowable Use Mode
Any application for business construction and business activity that are
not enumerated in this SECTION shall have the option to apply under the
Allowable Use Mode. Applicant is then required to fulfill building regulations
under the UEESZ.

Page 4of7
Ord. No.0298-23
General Building Regulations:
Unless otherwise provided, all other activities, as may be allowed within
the moderate risk to low risk to landslide zone, that will involve the introduction
of concrete implements/structures, shall be required to:
A. Implement Slope Prutection Measures and/or Landslide Mitigating
Measules, plans of which are duly signed by a Geologist and a Structural
Engineer with both professionals submitting an Undeftaking to oversee and
superuise the implementaUon of the above-stated measures;
B. Submit a Ceftification duly signed by a Geologist or equivalent
professional that the proposed construction activity shall not cause landslide
or land wasting to the adjacent propefties which are not under the ownership
of the applica nt/developer;
C. Submit a llotarized Undeftaking duly signed by the applicant/owner
that ertreme caution will be exercised in the construction activities to avoid
destructive land movements and should land movements that are attributable
to the said construction activity will result to physical damages to adjoining
propefties, the applicant will bear the cost of the repair, rehabilitation or
restoration of the damaged propefi, as determined and decided in a proper
court or venue or as agreed by concemed parties, whichever is applicable.
Additional Regulations for activities within Shrine Hills and all other areas
similarly situated as determined by the Technical Working Group for Evaluation:
1. The applicant/landowner has no other property classified as residential
for zoning purposes anywhere in Davao City. For this purpose, the
applicant shall be required to submit an omnibus affidavit of such fact
of no other residential lot and undertaking to voluntarily remove all
improvements on the property subject of the application in case of
misrepresentation.
The foregoing regulation shall not be applicable if the propefi owned
by the applicant is determined by CDRRMO as hazard-prone.
2. The design of the structure shall be such that:
. It will introduce engineering saftty measures. The owner can use
permeable and semi-permeable pavement for the parking area
as may be desired, provided that, the permeable or semipermeable bricks are laid on top of the natural ground using
levelling materials like sand or natural fiber.
o Balcony and/or view deck may be constructed which wil! not be
included in the computation of FAR, provided that, the flooring
of the attached feature outside the main building is designed in
such a way that it allows air and water to pass through it.
3. Landslide Protection and Surface Erosion Control Measures should be
obserued, to wit:
o Slope Itlaintenance,' Given the high susceptibility to landslide
and sufface erosion of the fringes of Shrine Hills, a Slope
Protection Measure Program must be established by the City in
paftnership with the land owners. In all cases, slope
maintenance responsibility belongs to the owner of the land.
o Slope ltlaintenance fnsp*tion: Regular inspection should be
canied out to determine the conditions of a slope. These
inspections can be sub-divided into three (3) levels/categories:

Ord. No.0298-23
Routine Inspection - shall be conducted by NGOs, POs, members of the
Technical working Group for Evaluation based on some general visual
guidelines;
Engineering inspection - shall be conducted by a qualified geotechnical
engineer hired for the purpose by the City Engineer's Office (CEO) and
the City Engineer in accordance with engineering standards;
Regular Monitoring Process - shall be conducted by the members of the
Technical Working Group for Monitoring.
The City may hire the services of a qualified engineering firm as may be
necessary in the assessment of technica! ways forward in providing
mitigating measures.
Other Regulations:
. The required Floor Area Ratio (FAR) for all residential buildings in the UEE
Sub-Zone shall be 0.5 to cover a maximum of twenty-five percent (25olo) of the
entire lot, provided that another 250lo shall be planted with endemic/indigenous
tree species and provided further that such planting area shall be maintained
in accordance with the specifications set by the Mines and Geosciences Bureau
(MGB).
Provided fufther that no residential building will be constructed within the high
risk to landslide area. In case where the propefi is a combination of moderate
risk to low risk, and high risk to landslide features, no residential building shall
be constructed in the high risk to landslide area.
I
a
a
When public interest so requires, the Preliminary Subdivision Development Plan
(PSDP) granted for subdivision projects in Urban Ecological Enhancement
Sub-Zone as provided herein may be recalled or revoked by the SANGGUNIANG
Panlungsod, throuEh a resolution, upon majority vote of all its members, after
obseryance of due process of law.
For Subdivision Development with duly approved Development Permit, land
development completion and Authority to Sell by HLURB or DHSUD prior to the
latest amendment which changed the effective zone of the area. Such
subdMsion project shall be treated as a duly approved subdivision project and
as such shall be allowed to exist or to continue unless determined and declared
by competent authorities as no longer suitable for habitation. Construction of
units in these subdivision projects shall be required to fulfill building regulations
A, B, and C, as provided herein when applying for a locational clearance and
building permit which are over and above the regular documentary
requirements.
Subdivision Development projects applying for PALC/DP as approved at the
CHLURU-level prior to the July L7, 2023 effectivity of the 2019 Zoning
Ordinance shall be evaluated at the City Council using the 2013 Zoning
Ordinance, provided, the application is still within the one (l)-year transition
period, to commence upon the date of eftctivity of the amendments.
Otherwise, the 2019 Zoning (or latest amendment) shall be applicable in the
evaluaUon process.
a
o

Ord. No.0298-23
SECTION 3. ARTICLE XI, SECTIOI{ 63.2 IS HEREBY AMENDED TO
READ AS FOLLOWS:
ARTICTE XI, SECTION 63.2
URBAil ECOLOGICAL EN}IANCEMENT SUB-ZOilE
Checklist of Requirements
1) Application Letter
2) Barangay Resolution of No Objection (if applicable)
3) Zoning Clearance/Certification
4) Certified True Copy of l'itle
5) Survey Sketch Plan signed and sealed by a duly licensed geodetic engineer
6) Topographic Plan signed and sealed by a duly licensed geodetic engineer
7) Site Grading Plan signed and sealed by a duly licensed geodetic engineer
8) Site Development Plan signed and sealed by a duly licensed civil engineer
and/or architect and environmental planner, reflecting the following:
I.AND TABUI.ATION DATA
Area in square meters
Percentage (o/o)
Total Land Area
Bullding Footprint
Green Space
Slope Protection, if any
9) Building Plans signed and sealed by a duly licensed professional:
o Architectural Plans (Floor plans and elevation drawings) -
Civil Engineer/Architect
o Structural Plans - Civil Engineer
10) Drainage Plan with hydraulic computation signed and sealed by a duly licensed
Civil Engineer
11) Geotechnical analysis signed and sealed by a duly licensed Geologist (for
individual residential projects)
12) An omnibus geotechnical analysis signed and sealed by a duly Iicensed
Geologist or Structural Engineer (for applications within subdivisions with a duly
approved Development Permit, land development completion and Authority to
Sell by HLURB or DHSUD prior to the latest amendment, to be provided by the
subdivision developer)
13) MGB Geohazard Ceftification
14) Notarized Undeftaking

Ord. No.0298-23
Additional Requirements for Exemptions for Residential Purposes, if area is within
Shrine Hills:
o OMNIBUS AFFIDAVIT stating that the applicanfllandowner has no other
property classifted as residential for zoning purposes, anywhere in Davao City;
and an
o UilDERTAKII{G to voluntarily remove all improvements to the propefi
subject of the application in case of misrepresentation.
SECTION 4. rcIf for any reason, any SECTION or provision
of this Ordinance is declared unconstitutional or invalid, other sections or provisions hereof
not affected by such declaration shall continue to be in full force and effect.
SECTIOil 5. EFFECTMTY-This Ordinance shalltake effect fifteen (15) days upon
approval, posting and publication in a newspaper of local circulation.
ENACTED, on the 26th day of September 2023, by ,/o vote of all the Memberc of the
Sanggunian, there being a quorum.
CERTIFIED CORRECT:
For and in the absence of the Secretary:
MA. TI{ERE$(REYES
Acting Secretary to the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod
(Assistant Secretary to the SANGGUNIANG Panlungto$l
ATTESTED:
r. MELCFOR B. QUrrArN JR
,/ Yice Mayor
Presiding Officer
mtar/kjta
ATTY.
AppRovED: N01, 13 208
2023
DUTERTE
City Mayortfl
v
ATTESTED:
H. LAYOG
Acting
nistrator
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING ORDINANCE NO. 0861-22 ENTITLED "AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING THE DAVAO
crTY CoMPREHENSTVE |-AND USE PIAN (CLUP) 207*2028, AMENDING ORDINANCE NO. 0546-13, SERIES
oF 20t3", SPECIFICALLY ARTICLE V, ZONE REGUTATIONS, SECTION 12.6.16- URBAN ECOLOGICAL
ENHANCEMENT SUB-ZONE (UEESZ)