t
Republic of fhe Philippines
Office of tle Sangglrniang Panlungsod
20th CiW Council
26u Regular Session
SERIES of 2023
PRESENT:
Vice Mayor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councllor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
J. Melchor B. Quitain Jr.
Marissa S. Abella
Luna Maria Dominique S. Acosta
Bai Hundra Cassandra Dominique N. Advincula
Bernard E. Al-ag
Al Ryan S. Alejandre
Dante L. Apostol Sr.
Conrado C. Baluran
Jessica M. Bonguyan
Louie John J. Bonguyan
Pilar C. Braga
Augusto Javier G. Campos III
Jonard C. Dayap
Edgar P. Ibuyan Jr.
Edgar R. Ibuyan Sr.
Richlyn N. Justol-Baguilod
Diosdado Angelo Junior R. Mahipus
Rodolfo M. Mande
Jaffar U. Marohomsalic
Bonz Andre A. Militar
Temujin B. Ocampo
Myrna G. L'Dalodo0rtiz
Alberto T. Ungab
Lorenzo Benjamin D. Villafuefte
Trisha Ann J. Villafuerte
Jesus Joseph P.Zozobrado III
- Presiding fficer
ABSENT:
Councilor
Councilor
ORDINANCE NO. 0258.23
SERIES of 2023
AN ORDINANCE OPERATIONATIZING REPUBLIC ACT NO. 10173 OR
THE DATA PRTVACY ACT OF 2OI2 IN THE CITY GOVERNMENT OF
DAVAO (ALSO KNOWN AS TltE DATA PRTVACY ORDTNANCE OF THE
crry oF DAvAo), pRovrDrNG GUTDELTNES AND FUNDS THEREFOR
Nilo M. Abellera Jr.
Wilbefto E. Al-ag

Ord. No.0258-23
Be it ordained by the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod of Davao City in session assembled,
that
SECTION 1. E!! - This Ordinance shall be known as "AN ORDINANCE
OPERATIONALIZING REPUBLIC ACT NO. 10173 OR THE DATA PRryACY ACT OF 2OL2
rN THE CrTy GOVERNI{ENT OF DAVAO (A|SO KNOWN AS THE DATA PRn ACY
oRDTNANCE OF THE CrTy OF DAVAO), PROVTDTNG GUTDELTNES AND FUNDS
TTIEREFOR".
SECTIOil 2.
- The terms used in the Data Privacy Act
(DPA) and its Implementing Rules and Regulations (IRR), as amended, are adopted herein.
SECTIOil 3. COVERAGE. - This Ordinance shall cover all depaftments and offices
under the City Government of Davao.
SECTION 4.
- The following are the
general duties and obligations of the City Government of Davao as a Personal Information
Controller (PIC):
A. Personal data shall be processed for purposes of facilitating the peformance of
iE public functions and the provision of public seruices pursuant to its
mandate. In all instances, it shall adhere to the general data privacy principles
of transparency, legitimate purpose, and proportionality;
B. Reasonable and appropriate safeguards shall be implemented for the protection
of persona! data of data subjects of the CITY GOVERNMENT OF DAVAO,
whether internal (officials, employees, job order, contract of service, casual,
etc.) or external (clients, visitors, other stakeholders, etc.);
C. The rights of the data subjects shall be upheld, subject to limitations as may be
provided for by law. The free exercise of applicable rights shall be enabled
through mechanisms that are clear, simple, straightforward, and convenient for
the data subjects; and
D. The data privacy rights of the affected data subjects shall be harmonized with
the right to information on matters of public concern. It is recognized that both
rights are imperative for transparenf, accountable, and pafticipatory
governance, and are key factors for effective and reasonable public
pafticipation in social, poliUcal, and economic decision-making.
SECTIOI{ 5. SPECIFIC COMPLIAI{CE REQUIREMENTS. - The tullowing specific
compliance requirements under the DPA, ib IRR as amended, and relevant issuances of the
National Privacy Commission (NPC), are hereby set out as follows:
A. Desionati6n of Persons Responsible- Pursuant to SECTION 2l of the DP&
PIG shall designate individual/s who shall facilitate and ensure the PIC's
responsibility and accountability for the organization's compliance with the
DPA. The following are hereby designated:
A.1. Data Protection Officer (DPO)-The City Mayor shall designate
the DPO, through a memorandum, tasked with the duties and
responsibilities of ensuring the compliance of the City Government of
Davao with the DPA, its IRR, and other NPC issuances.
I

rt
Ord. No. 0258-23
It shall have the following functions:
a. Monitor the Personal Information Controllers (PICs) or Personal
Information Processors (PIPs) compliance with the Data Privacy Act
(DPA), its Implementing Rules & Regulations (IRR), issuances by the
National Privacy Commission (NPC) and other applicable laws and
policies. For this purpose, he or she may:
i. Collect information to identiff the processing operations,
activities, measures, prcjects, programs, or systems of the PIC
or PIP, and maintain a record thereof;
ii. Analpe and check the compliance of processing activities,
including the issuance of security clearances and compliance by
third-pafi seryice providerc;
iii. Inform, advise, and issue recommendations to the PIC or PIP;
iv. Asceftain renewal of accreditations or ceftifications necessary to
maintain the required standards in perconal data processing; and
v. Advise the PIC or PIP as regards the necessity of executing a
Data Sharing Agreement with third parties, and ensure its
compliance with law.
b. Ensure the conduct of Privary Impact Assessments (PIA) relative to
activities, measures, projects, programs, or systems of the PIC or
PIP;
c. Advise the PIC or PIP regarding complaints and/or the exercise by
data subjects of their rights (e.9,, requests for information,
clarifications, rectification, or deletion of personal data);
d. Ensure proper data breach and security incident management by the
PIC or PIP, including the latter's preparation and submission to the
NPC of repofts and other documentation concerning security
incidents or data breaches within the prescribed period;
e. Inform and cultivate awareness on privacy and data protection within
the organization of the PIC or PIP, including al! relevant laws, rules
and regulations and issuances of the NPC;
f. Advocate for the development review and /or revision of policies,
guidelines, projects and/or programs of the PIC or PIP relating to
privacy and data protection, by adopting a privacy by design
approach;
g. Serue as the contact person of the PIC or PIP vis-i-vis data
subjects, the NPC and other authorities in all matters concerning data
privacy, security issues or concerns of the PIC or PIP;

,
Ord. No.0258-23
Cooperate, coordinate, and seek the advice of the NPC regarding
matters concerning data privary and security;
Perform other duties and tasks that may be assigned by the PIC or
PIP that will further the interest of data privacy and security and
uphold the rights of the data subjects;
The DPO or his or her authorized representative/s shall create the
necessary user accounts in the applicable NPC system/s in
compliance of the requirements for registration and personal data
breach notification and management;
The contact details of the DPO should be made available and easily
accessible on the official website and social media page/s and
should include the following infomration:
a. Title or designation- the name of the DPO need not be
published but should be made available upon request by a data
subject:
b. Postal address: and
c. Dedicated telephone number and email address.
The designated DPO shall be assisted by Compliance Officers for Privacy (COPs)
and Data Privacy Committee created herein.
A.2
-There shall be a Compliance
Officer for Privary (COP) per office, one (1) primary and one (1) alternate, who
must be a Plantilla personnel, and duly covered by a memorandum from the
Human Resource Management Office.
Functions:
1. Repoft to the DPO any data breach and security incident within the
prescribed period;
2. Inform and cultivate awareness on privacy and data protection within their
respective offices;
3. Suggest to the DPO the development, review and/or revision of policies,
guidelines, projects and/or programs of the PIC or PIP relating to privacy
and data protection;
4. Serue as the focal person of their respective offices in all matters concerning
data privacy or security issues; and
5. Peform other duties and tasks that may be assigned by the DPO that will
fufther the interest of data privacy and security and uphold the rights of the
data subjects.
h
i.
j
k.

Ord. No. 0258-23
A.3 Data Privaor Committee-The Data Privary Committee (herein after
referred to as the "Committee" for brevity) shall be primarily composed of the
duly appointed representatives of the following offices:
Chairpercon:
City Mayor's Office
Vice Chairpercon:
City Legal Office
Members:
. City Administrator's Office
. City Information and Technology Center
. City Archives and Records Office
. City Civil Registrar's Office
. SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod, Committee on Information Technology
. Human Resource Management Office
. City Social Welfare and Development Office
. City Health Office
The City Mayor may, through an Executive Order, add additiona! members
to the Committee, as may be deemed necessary.
The members of the Data Privacy Committee shall perform functions as may
be instructed by the City Mayor and/or the DPO, such as but not limited to,
reviewing contracts involving processing of personal data and provide technical
advice to the DPO based on their areas of expeftise.
The presence of a simple majority of all the members of the Committee shall
constitute a quorum.
B. Conduct of Privaor Impact Assessment- AII departments and offices as
process ownerc shall conduct a Privary Impact Assessment (PIA) on any
personal data processing system prior to their adoption, use, or
implementation.
1. For existing systems, the DPO shal! be consulted by the respective
process owners on the appropriateness of conducting a PIA and the
reasonable timeframe to accomplish the same;
2. For both existing and proposed systems, there may be a determination
that the conduct of a PIA is not necessary if the processing involves
minimal risks to the rights and freedoms of data subjects, taking into
account the recommendations from the DPO. In making this
determination, the following should be considered:
a. Size and sensitivity of the personal data being processed;
b. Duration and extent of processing;
c. Likely impact of the processing to the life of the data subjecU and
d. Possible harm in case of a personal data breach;

Ord. No.0258-23
3. The conduct of a PIA may be outsourced to a third-party service
provider, as may be recommended by the DPO, subject to the laws,
rules, and regulations applicable to government procurement;
4. The relevant issuances and other information, education, and
communication materials of the Nrc or PIA and other relevant
issuances shall serue as additional guidance; and
5. The results of the PIA conducted shall be made the basis for the
preparation of the Privacy Management Program, the Privary Manual,
and the crafting of the appropriate privary notices specific to the
personal data processing activities being undertaken by the pertinent
deparfirents and offices and other applicable policies relevant to data
.privacy and security.
C. Adootion of a Privacy Manaoement Prooram and Privacy ManualThe City Government of Davao shall prepare a Privacy Management Program,
which shall contain, among others, the necessary policies and processes that
remediates the gaps identified in the PIA and a Privacy Manual, as may be
supplemented by the existing or prospective codes, guides, manuals, privacy
notices, ordinances, policies and other documented information on processes
that may deal with any data privacy matter.
1. The DPO, the Committee, and the COPs shall be tasked to ensure that
all relevant records and other documentation on data privacy are
maintained and kept up to date; and
2. The Privary Management Program and Privacy Manual shall be
subject to regular review, evaluation, and updating, where
appropriate, considering the best practices and national and/or
international standards for data privary and security.
D. Implementation of SecuriW Measures - Reasonable and appropriate
organizational, technical, and physical security measures shall be
implementgd by all departrnents and offices processing personal data.
1. The determination of what is reasonable and appropriate shall take
into account the following factors as determined following the PIA
conducted:
a. Nature and volume of the personal data to be protected;
b. Risk of the processing to the involved data subjects;
c. Size of the department or office and complexity of its persona! data
processing activities;
d. Current data privacy best practices; and
e. Cost of implementation.

Ord. No.0258-23
2. The security measures to be implemented shall ensure the protection
of personal data against any unlawful processing and the
confidentiality, integrity, and availability of the personal data being
processed. The DPO, in consultation and coordination with the City
Information and Technology Center, in the case of digibl-based or
electronic systems, and the City Archives and Records Office, in the
case of paper-based documents, shall make the appropriate
determination and recommendation on the measures and policies to
be implemented. These may include back-up solutions, access
controls, secure log files, acceptable use, encryption and data disposal
mechanisms, among others, for any personal data processing activity.
3. The data sharing and outsourcing arrangements shall be subject to
the execution of the appropriate agreements as may be determined by
the Committee in consultation with the DPO. For this purpose, the
relevant issuances of the NPC shall be obserued accordingly.
E. Security Incident Manaoement: Perconal Data Breach Manaoement
- The following policies and procedures are set out for purposes of managing
security incidents, including personal data breaches.
1. Data Breach Response Team (DBRT)- A data breach response team is
hereby created with the following members: the DPO and the Data
Privacy Committee.
The DBRT shall be responsible for the following actions:
a. Assess and evaluate all security incidents, including personal data
breaches;
b. Restore integrity to the affected information and communications
systems;
c. Recommend measures for mitigation and remedies on any resulting
damage to the CITY GOVERNMENT OF DAVAO and the affected
data subjects;
d. Comply with the mandatory notification and other repofting
requirements indicated in the appropriate NPC issuance; and
e. Coordinate with the appropriate government Computer Emergenry
Response Team (CERT) and law enforcement agencies, where
appropriate.
2. Incident Response Procedure - The DBRT shall recommend the actual
procedure or manual for the timely discovery and management of
security incidents. This shall include:
a. Identification of person/s responsible for regular monitoring and
evaluation of security incidents;
b. Reporting lines in the event of a personal data breach;

Ord. No. 0258-23
c. Evaluation of the security incidents or personal data breaches as to
its nature, extent and cause, the adequacy of safeguards in place,
immediate and long-term impact of the personal data breach, and
its actual and potential harm and negative consequences to
affected data subjects;
d. Procedures for contacting law enforcement if necessary;
e. Conduct of investigations on the security incident, including
personal data breaches;
f. Procedures for notiffing the NPC and data subjects when the
personal data breach is subject to mandatory notification
requirements;
g. Procedures in assisting affected data subjects to mitigate the
possible harm and negative consequences in the event of a
personal data breach.
SECTION 6. RIGHTS OF DATA SUBJECTS, MECHANISM FOR THE
EXERCISE OF RIGHTS- The relevant NPC issuances on data subject rights, the
guidance on transparency, procedures for the exercise of rights, and appropriate
templates indicated therein, are hereby adopted.
SECTION 7. GUEDIES- The DPO, in coordination with the Committee and the
concerned departnent or office as process owners, as represented by their respective
COPs, shall endeavor to address and resolve all data subject clarifications, complaints,
concerns, questions, and requests, among others, relating to the processing of their
personal data, exercise of rights, personal data breaches, and other similar matters
without undue delay, following the applicable provisions of Republic Act No. 11032 or
the 'tase of Doing Business and Efficient Government Seruice Delivery Act of 2018" and
its Implementing Rules and Regulations.
SECTION 8. W
- Any doubt in the interpretation of any
provision of this Ordinance and corresponding policies shall be construed in a manner
that accords the highest respect for data privacy, and liberally interpreted in a manner
mindful of the rights and interest of data subjects.
SECTION 9. FUNDING - The City Government of Davao shall ensure the
provision of the necessary funds to support the full implementation of this Ordinance.
SECTIOI{ 10. SEPARABILITY CLAUSE - If any SECTION or part of this
Ordinance is held unconstitutional or invalid, other sections or provisions hereof not
otherwise affected shall remain in full force or effect.
SECTIOil 11. REPEALIilG CIAUSE - All other Ordinances, orders, issuances,
rules and regulations, which are inconsistent with the provisions of this Ordinance are
hereby repealed, amended or modified accordingly.
SECTIOI{ 12. EFFECTMTY - This Ordinance shall take effect fifteen (15) days
after publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the City of Davao.

I
I
Ord. No.0258-23
ENACTED, July lL, 2023, by a unanimous vote of all the Members of the
Sanggunian, there being a quorum.
CERTIFIED CORRECT:
For and in the absence of the Secretary:
MA. THERESA A. REYES
Acting Secretary to the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod
(City Government Assistant Department Head IIp
ATTESTED:
J. nercV#a. eurrArrr rR.
/ viceMayor
' Presiding fficer
cns/er
APPRovED: OCT l0 ?023,2023
DUTERTE
c.W Ma\ly ,
SE
ATTESTED:
ATTY.
H. I.AYOG
Acting
istrator
AN ORDINANCE
RERJBUC ACT NO. 10173 OR THE DATA PRIVACY ACT OF 2012 IN THE CITY
covERNMENT OF DAVAO (AI-SO KNOWN AS THE DATA PRIVACY ORDINANCE OF THE CITy OF DAVAO),
PROVIDING GUIDEUNES AND FUNDS THEREFOR