Eity of Davao
20u' City Council
17ffi Regular Session
SERIES of 2023
PRESENT:
Vice Mayor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
ABSENT:
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
J. Melchor B. Quitain Jr.
- Presiding Officer
Marissa S. Abella
Luna Maria Dominique S. Acosta
Bai Hundra Cassandra Dominique N. Advincula
Bernard E. Al-ag
Wilbefto E. AI-ag
Al Ryan S. Alejandre
Dante L. Apostol Sr.
Conrado C. Baluran
Jessica M. Bonguyan
Louie John J. Bonguyan
Pilar C. Braga
Augusto Javier G. Campos III
Jonard C. Dayap
Edgar P. Ibuyan Jr.
Edgar R. Ibuyan Sr.
Diosdado Angelo Junior R. Mahipus
Rodolfo M. Mande
Jaffar U. Marohomsalic
Bonz Andre A. Militar
Temujin B. Ocampo
Myrna G. LDalodo-Oftiz
Albefto T. Ungab
Trisha Ann J. Villafuefte
Jesus Joseph P. Zozobrado III
Nilo M. Abellera Jr.
Richlyn N. Justol-Baguilod
Lorenzo Benjamin D. Villafuefte
- On Official Business
- On Special Privilege Leave
ORDINANCE NO. O2O8-23
SERIES oJ 2023
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CERTAIN SECTIONS OF
oRDINANCE NO. 0873-22, SERIES OF2022, ENTTTLED*AN
ORDINANCE CREATING PEACE 911.THE CENTER FOR
PEACE BUITDING AS A DIVISION OF THE OFFICE OF THE
CITY MAYOR" SUBJECT TO ALL LAWS AND EXISTING
LEGAT RULES AND REGULATIONS
,l
t

Ord. No. 0208-23
Be it ordained by the Honorable SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod of Davao City, in session
assembled, that:
SECTION 1. E!! - This Ordinance shall be referred to as "AN ORDINANCE
AMEI{DING CERTATN SECTIONS OF ORDINANCE NO. 0873-22, SERTES OF
2022, ENTITLED *AN ORDINANCE CREATTNG PEACE 911-THE CENTER FOR
PEACE BUILDING AS A DIVISION OF THE OFFICE OF THE CITY MAYOR"
SUBJECT TO AtL IAWS AND EXISTING LEGAL RULES AND REGUIATIONS".
SECTION 2. DECLARATION OF PRINCIPLES AND POLICIES - Memorandum
Circulars and other issuances from the Depaftment of Budget and Management, the Civil
Service Commission, and other related laws that will affect the qualifications and functions
of plantilla personnel, viz:
A. SECTION 22 of Republic Act 7L6O provides:
"SECfiON 22. Corporate Powerc. - (a) Every local government unit, as a
corporation, shall have the following powee:
1) To have continuous succession in iB corporate name;
2) To sue and be sued;
3) To have and use a corporate seal;
4) To acquire and convey real or perconalproperty;
5) To enter into contracB; and
6) To exercis such other poweo as are granted to corporations,
subject to the limitations provided in this Code and other laws";
B. SECTION 455 of Republic Act 7160 provides:
"SECTTON 455. Chief Executive; Powery Duties and Compensation. -
(a) The city mayor, as chief exrcutive of the city government, shall
exercis such powerc and perfotm such duties and functions as
provided by this Code and other laws.
(b) For efficient, effective and economical governance the purpose of
which is the general welfare of the city and its inhabitants purcuant to
SECTION 16 of this Code the city mayor shall:
(1) *ercire general superuision and control over all programs, prolecB,
seruiceq and activities of the city government, and in this connection,
shall:
w
)ffi(
)M
(vi) Represent the city in all its business transactions and sign in its
behalf all bonds, contra6, and obligations, and such other documenb
upon authority of the SANGGUNIANG panlungsod or pursuant to law or
ordinance";
C. Depaftment of Budget and Management (DBM) Memorandum Circular
No, 2018-3, SERIES of 2018, dated July 30, 2018 states the purpose as "This
Circular is issued to amend the Guidelines on the reclassification of positions as
part of the mandate of the Department of Budget and Management (DBM) to
administer and maintain the Compensation and Position Classification System
(CPCS) in the government.";

Ord. No.0208-23
D. DBM Budget Circular No. 2022-2, SERIES of 2O22, dated April 4 2022 released
the updated Index of Occupational Seruices, Occupational Groups, Classes and Salary
Grades, C( 2A22 Edition;
E. Civil Seruice Commission Memorandum Circular No. 12, SERIES of 2022,
states the 2022 Guidelines and Standards in the Establishment of Organizational
Structures and Staffing Patterns in Local Government Units;
F. Civil Seruice Commission (CSC) Memorandum Circular No. 21, SERIES of
2OL3, states that pursuant to CSC Resolution No. 1300981, promulgated on May L7,
2013, published in Manila Times on August 24, 20L3, the Commission adopts
guidelines pertaining to Qualification Standards on Training;
G. CSC Memorandum Circular No. 10, Seriesof 2013, states revised policies on the
Grant of Eligibility under CSC MC No. 11, SERIES of 1996, as amended;
H. CSC Memorandum Circular No. 17, SERIES of 2005, states the revised policies of
the Qualification Standards on Education;
I. CSC Memorandum Circular No. 42, SERIES of 1998, states the framework for the
implementation of policies on Qualification Standards;
J. CSC Memorandum Circular No. 1, SERIES ol L997, pursuant to Resolution No.
97-0404, dated January 24, 1997, the Civil Seruice Commission repeals MC No.46,
SERIES of 1993, and adopts the New Qualification Standards Manual for positions in
the civil service;
K. CSC Memorandum Circular No. 11, SERIES of 1996, states the classification of
positions which require skills not measurable by paper and pencil examination;
L. CSC Memorandum Circular No. 03, SERIES of 1991, states the policy on the use
of Qualification Standards.
SECTION 3. DEFINITION OF TERMS - The following words, terms, phrases and
acronyms shall be defined as follows:
Competency
A set of observable, measurable, and vital skills,
knowledge, and attitudes that are translations of
capabilities deemed essential for organizational
success (Civil Seruice Commission)
csc
Civil Service Commission
DBM
Department of Budget and Management
DILG
Depaftment of the Interior and Local Government
IOS
Index of Occupational Seruiceq Occupational
Groups, Classes and Salany Grades
MC No.
Memorandum Circular Number
Qualification Standards
Description of the minimum requirements
necessary to perform work of a particular
occupation successfully and safely
RA No.
Republic Act Number
SECTION 4. AMENDMENT TO SECTION'7 OF ORDINANCE NO. 0873.22,
SERIES OF 2022 - The position title of Administrative Officer II (SG4) in SECTION 7.8 shall
be amended to Administrative Aide IV (Clerk II).

Ord. No. 0208-23
SECTION 5. AMENDMENTS TO SECTION 8 OF ORDINANCE NO. 0873.22,
SERIES OF 2022 - SECTION S "Functions and Qualifications of Plantilla Positions" stipulated
in Ordinance No. 0873-22, SERIES of 2022, shall be amended.
A, SECTION 8.C.1 shall be amended and restated to read as:
8.C.I Administrative Officer IV (SG-15)
ORDINANCE NO. 0873.22
AMENDMENT
SECTION 7.8 The following regular positions
and the respective quantity shall be created
under the Administrative SECTION:
Class/Position
Title
SG/Level
Number
of
Positions
Administrative
Officer IV
Ls12
Administrative
Officer II
4lt
Administrative
Aide IV (Driver
II)
4lr
SECTION 7.8 shall be amended to read as:
SECTION 7.B The following regular positions
and the respective quantity shall be created
under the Administrative SECTION:
Class/Position
Title
SG/Level
Number
of
Positions
Administrative
Officer IV
ts12
Administrative
Aide IV (Clerk
u)
4lL
Administrative
Aide IV (Driver
r)
4lL
Qualifications:
a. Bachelor's Degree relevant to the Job;
b. One (1) year relevant experienoe;
c. Four (4) hours relevant training;
d. Career Seruice (Professional) Second Level Eligibility.
Functions:
a. Superuises the administrative functions of the center relative to records
management, personnel administration, procurement supply and
propefi utilization, budgeting, janitorial seruices, including maintenance
and repair;
b. Undeftakes and coordinates in the administration of fringe benefits and
other employee seruices;
c, Oversees the training of the employees;
d. Undertakes the dissemination of latest issuances relative to the functions
of the center;
e. Prepares necessary documents such as memoranda, emails, and repofts
needed by the Officer-In-Charge;
t. Organizes and schedules appointments and meetings as approved by the
Officer-In-Charge;
g. Plans meetings and take detailed minutes;
h. Performs such other related functions that may, from time to time, be
assigned by the immediate superuisor.

Ord. No. 0208-23
B. SECTION 8.C.2 shall be amended and restated to read as:
8.C.2 Administrative Aide IV
erk
C. SECTION 8.D.1 shall be amended and restated to read as:
8.D.1
nt Officer II
a. Completion of two (2) years studies in college;
b. No experience required;
c. No training required;
d. Career Seruice (Sub-professional) First Level Eligibility.
Qualifications:
a. Assists in performing frontline services to clients, receiving, recording,
releasing and sorting new, renewal and special permit applications;
b. Scans permit files and attachments for easy reference and
retrieval, creating metadata and uploading of e-records and
files;
G. Assists in managing of rccords management and endorces
the same to proper agencies;
d. Assists in drafting memoranda, emails, and repofts needed
by the Officer-In-Charge;
e. Assists in perconnel administration;
f. Assists in procurement of products and seruices;
g. Assists in managing inventory of all office equipment and
ensures its good condition;
h. Does other functions as may be directed by the immediate superiors.
Functions:
a. Bachelort Degree relevant to the job;
b. One (1) year relevant experience;
c. Four (4) hours relevant training;
d. Career Service (Professional) Second Level Eligibility.
Qualifications:
a. Formulates peacebuilding programs, trainings, and projects for Peace
911 focused areas;
b. Implements approved peace building programs, Projects, Programs
and Activities (PPAs) and trainings and monitor the progress of the
said PPAs and trainings;
c. Evaluates the development of the implemented plans, programs,
projects and trainings and repofts it to the Officer-in-Charge;
d. Improves existing PPAs and trainings and executes it with better
prog ram efficiency rate;
e. Collaborates with all the center's units, prepares annual budgetary
requirement for the said PPAs and trainings and submit the
proposal to the Division Head;
f. Does other related functions as may be directed by the immediate
superiors.
Functions:

Ord. No. 0208-23
Ft
Gaa*iar
|o 1r t ^h^ll
h^ ^m^al^zl
rn,{
raalrtaz{
}a -^r,{
y.
rrlEr9tllraa
g.v.i
Jl lcltl trE Cll I lgl ll,lELl Cll l\l I EJLqLg\l
LV I ECrtJ qJr
8.D.2
Officer I
E, SECTION 8.D.3 shall be amended and restated to read as:
8.D,3
Evaluation Assistant
F. SECTION 8.E.1 shall be amended and restated to read as:
Ma
a. Bachelor's Degree relevant to the job;
b. No experience requireci;
c. No training required;
d. Career Seruice (Professional) Second Level Eligibility.
Qualifications:
a. Provides assistance to the Development Management Officer II in
collaboration and preparation of annual budgetary requirements for
the PPAs and trainings;
b. Assists the Development Management Officer II in formulating
peace-building programs and trainings for the office's focus
areas;
c. Does other related functions as may be directed by immediate
superiors.
runcuons:
a. Completion of two (2) years in college;
b. One (1) year of relevant experience required;
c. Four (4) hours of relevant training required;
d. Career Seruice (Sub-Professional) First Level Eligibility.
t
Qualifications:
a. Provides support in implementing approved peace-building
programs, projects and activities (PPAs), trainings and monitors
its progress;
b. Conducts assessment of the implemented plans, programs, and
projects, trainings in the focus areas and submits repoft to the
Development Management Officer for evaluation;
c. Does other related functions as may be directed by immediate
superiors.
Functions:
a. Bachelor's Degree relevant to the job;
L ,a-^
,.t\
-rla.,rrr
---^-i^---.
lJr l/!lli
tr/,
,lr(rl
lailEUOlll
EAPTEI lElll,E,
c. Four (4) hourc relevant training;
d. Career Seruice (Professional) Second Level Eligibility.
Qualifications
8.E.1
Ma
Officer II

PageT of 10
Ord. No. 0208-23
G. SECTION 8.E.2 shall be amended and restated to read as:
8.E.2 Develo
Management Officer I (SG-11)
H. SECTION 8.F.1 shall be amended and restated to read as:
r,,-
J3^-^.
rut tLUUr r5.
a. Collaborates with government agencies, non-government
organizations and the private sector on conducting research and
documentation about peace-building;
b. Documents iessons iearned trom peacebuiHtng of iocai partners;
c. Formulates and develops peacebuilding practices and incorporates the
same into training programs;
d. Implements and monitorc rcsearch and development
strategies and priorities to support the office's mission and
vision and meet organizational needsi
e. Leads and manages office's special projects for focus aneas;
f. Does other related functions as may be directed by immediate
superiors.
a. Bachelor's Degree relevant to the job;
b. No experience required;
c. No training required;
d. Career Service (Professional) Second Level Eligibility
Qualifications
a. Provides assistance in collaborating with government agencies, nongovernment organizations and the private sector on the conduct of
L..ilr:^^
-^^^^-^L
-^A
A^^,raaxlrliar.
PCClLg-UUiltril r9 r sJEOr Lr l Cl! rU (JL,LUil rEilLcrlrtJt l,
b. Provides suppoft on the documentation of lessons learned from
peacebuilding of local paftners;
c. Cooperates with the Development Management Officer II or
Division Head in formulating and developing peacebuilding
--^J:-^-,
Pr dLLrLe5,
d. Provides suppoft on implementation and monitoring of
research and development strategies and priorities to
support the officet mission and vision and meet
organizational needs;
.
--2-a-
al-
-
-e-
,
- -2I
-aa
Q:
c. AssrSEs ln managrng fne orfrce s speclal ProJecfs ror focus
areasi
t. Does other related functions as may be directed by the immediate
superiors.
Functions:
a. Bachelor's Degree relevant to the job;
b. One (1) year relevant experience;
c. Four (4) hours relevant training;
d. Career Seruice (Professional) Second Level Eligibility.
Qualifications:
8.F.1 Development Management Officer II
t5

Ord. No. 0208-23
Functions:
a. Develops and strategizes community building mechanisms for the
sustainability of peace in the focus areas of Peace 911-The Center for
Peacebuilding;
b. Coordinates with relevant government agencies, non-government
organizations anci the private sector in converging aii peace eiiorts,
ensuring there is no duplication of projects implemented in a ceftain
area;
c. Oversees all projects and activities implemented in the center's focus
areas and monitors the said programs from time to time;
ci. Submits consoirciateci reports to the Otficer-In-Charge;
e. Plans cooperative problem-solving and institutionalizes a response
mechanism to violent conflicts;
f . Superuises personnel under the unit;
g. Overcees the timely operaUon of Legal, Infrastructure, Social
Seruices and Emergency Response assistance given to the
community of focus areas;
h. Initially handles verified community concerns and reports;
i. Does other functions as may be directed by immediate superiors.
I. SECTION 8.F.2 shall be amended and restated to read as:
8.F,2
Officer I
a. Bachelor's Degree relevant to the job;
b. No experience required;
c. No training required;
d. Career Service (Professional) Second Level Eligibility.
Quaiifications:
a. Functions for Development Management Officer I assigned for Legal
Concerns:
i. Assists in superuising the legal assistance given b the
community of Peace 911 focus areas and b restorc them inb
law abiding citizens;
ii. Coodinates with the Public Attorney's Office (PAO) rcgardiqg
rL^
rarrrl
:f
IL^
Fta..^!^r-a*l
l!+rraaaarl}
Laai- irc-GU oilta r Eprrr r rr Ll, Lrrg rrEvErlrPrrrErrL !'!otrogErllErlL
Officer II or Division tlead;
iii. Ensures proper prccessing, documentation and confidenUality
of all cases;
iv. Assists in developing and strategizing community building mechanisms;
,.,. .assists in the de,.,elopnnent of connnnunity building nnechanisnns for the
sustainability of peace in the focus areas of Peace 911-The center for
Peacebuilding;
vi. Does other functions as may be directed by immediate superiors
b. Functions for Development Management ffiicer I assigned for
Infrastructure concerns: I '
i.r

Ord. No.0208-23
i. Assists in coordinaUng infrastructure prcjects in the focus
arca and ensurcs Umely delivery;
ii. Endorces the infrastructure prcjects to rclevant government
agencies;
iii. Coordinates and updabs the barangay officials rcgading
the labst prooesses and rcquired documents fur
I nfrastructu rc projects;
iv. Assesses the prcgrcss and development of the
infrastructurc prcjects;
v. Assists in coordinating with government agencies, non-government
organizations and the private sector in converging a!! peace effolG,
ensuring there is no duplication of projects implemented in a certain
area;
vi. Does other functions as may be directed by immediate superiors.
c. Functions for Development Management ffiicer I assigned for Social
Seruice/Emergencv concerns:
i.
Assists in prcviding rcsponse and solving on-thegrcund
challenges during emergency and disaster operation;
ii. Coodinates with rclevant government agencies b
deliver appropriate assistance to the community of the
affiected aneas;
iii. Assists in monibring the poEntia! disasters that may
strike to the community and assist in responding;
iv. Prepares disaster situation report, iniUal impact and
assessments and !€pofts it b the Development
Management Officer II or Division Head;
v. Assists in the development of community building mechanisms
for the sustainability of peace in the focus areas of Peace 911The Center for Peacebuilding;
vi. Does other functions as may be directed by immediate superiors.
J. SECTION 8.F.3 shall be amended and restated to read as:
8.F.3
Evaluation Assistant
a. Completion of two (2) years in college;
b. One (1) year of relevant experience required;
c. Four (4) hours of relevant training required;
d. Career Seruice (Sub-Professional) First Level Eligibility.
Qualifications:
a. Conducts timely visitation and interuiew to the households and
communities in the cente/s focus areas, obtaining relevant
information on their concerlrs;
b. Verifies the information repdrted on the office's official hotlines;
c. Gathers issues and concerns peftaining to infrastructure, water
system, agriculture, security, educaUon and health on the assigned
areas, and collaborate with the proper agencies/team for action;
d. Closely monitors areas especially those identified as high risk
barangays, where there are presence of insurgents;
e. Submits weekly reports;
Functions:

Ord. No. 0208-23
f, Coordinates rcpofts to the Development Management
Officer I and II;
g. Does other functions as may be directed by immediate superiorc.
SECTION 6,
-
Any provision of this Ordinance
nullified by any court of law shall not affect the validity of the remaining provisions hereof
not affected by the said judicial declaration.
SECTION 7. EEEE$T - This Ordinance shal! take effect immediately upon
its approval.
ENACTED, on the Znd day of May 2023, by a unanimous vote of all the Members
of the Sanggunian, there being a quorum.
CERTIFIED CORRECT:
^ d'^fr l' W
,CHARTTO N. SANTOS
Secretary to the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod
(City Government Depaftment Head Ip,
ATTESTED:
J. ME
Presiding Officer
cns/kjtq
APPROVED: SEP 11208
2023
SE
Z. DUTERTE
ATTESTED:
ATTY. F
H. LAYOG
Acting
istrator
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CERTAIN SECNONS OF ORDINANCE NO. 0873-22, SERIES OF 2022,
ENTTTLED "AN ORDINANCE CREATING PEACE 911-THE CENTER FOR PEACE BUILDING AS A DMSION OF
THE OFFICE OF THE CITY MAYOR" SUBJECT TO ALL I.AWS AND DGSTING LEGAL RULES AND
REGULANONS
LcHk.eurrArN rR.
7{tice Mayor
i