?r6
tbfr
ttdnoo
)
'92?
,oNo
Republic' of the .Philippines
City.of Davao
20th City Council
38th Regular Session
SERIES of 2023
PRESENT:
Vice Mayor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
ABSENT:
Councilor
Councilor
J. Melchor B. Quitain Jr.
- Presiding Officer
Marissa S. Abella
Nilo M. Abellera lr.
Bai Hundra Cassandra Dominique N. Advincula
Bernard E. Al-ag
Wilberto E. Al-ag
Al Ryan S. Alejandre
Dante L. Apostol Sr.
Conrado C. Baluran
Jessica M. Bonguyan
Louie lohn J. Bonguyan
Pilar C. Braga
Augusto Javier G. Campos
Edgar P. Ibuyan Jr.
Edgar R. Ibuyan Sr.
Richlyn N. Justol-Baguilod
Diosdado Angelo Junior R. Mahipus
Rodolfo M. Mande
laffar U. Marohomsalic
Bonz Andre A. Militar
Temujin B. Ocampo
Myrna G. L'Dalodo-Ortiz
Albefto T. Ungab
Lorenzo Benjamin D. Villafuefte
Trisha Ann J. Villafuefte
Jesus Joseph P.Zozobrado III
Luna Maria Dominique S. Acosta
Jonard C. Dayap
- On Maternity Leave
- OB- Represented the
Mayor in the Trade
Exhibit at NCCC Mall
City
Fair
ORDINANCE NO. O3O7-23
SERIES of 2023
AN ORDINANCE CREATING THE DAVAO CITY YOUTH
DEVELOPMENT COUNCTL (DCYDC), DEFTNTNG rTS
FUNCTTONS AND PURPOSES, AND PROVIDTNG FUNDS
THEREFOR

Ord. No. 0307-23
Be it ordained by the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod of Davao City in session assembled,
that:
SECTION 1. TfTLE - This Ordinance shall be known as "THE DAVAO CITY YOUTH
DEVETOPMENT COUNCIL ORDINANCE'.
SECTION 2. POLICY STATEMENT - The State recognizes the vital role of the youth
in nation-building and thus, promotes and protects their physical, moral, spiritual, intellectual
and social well-being, inculcates in them patriotism, nationalism, and other desirable values,
and encourages their involvement in public and civic affairs.
Towards this end, the State shall establish adequate, effective, responsive and enabling
mechanisms and suppoft system that will ensure the meaningful participation of the youth in
local governance and in nation building.
Thus, it is the policy of the City Government of Davao to encourage the youth sector to
pafticipate in local governance and in nation building and thus, establish effective, responsive,
and enabling mechanisms for the youth to paftake in the promotion of the general welfare of
the youth constituents of the City. This Ordinance shall be guided by the peftinent provisions
of Republic Act No. 10742, othenruise known as "The SANGGUNIANG Kabataan Reform Act of
20L5", as amended by Republic Act No. 11768 which states that"to ensure wide and multisectoral youth pafticipation in local governance, there shall be in every province, city and
municipality a Local Youth Development Council (LYDC)".
SECTION 3. DEFINITON OF TERMS - For purposes of this Ordinance, the following
terms are hereby defined:
(a) Davao City Youth Development Council (DCYDC)- shall refer to Davao City's
multi-sectoral youth organization/council headed by the SK Pederasyon
President and composed of representatives of youth and youth-seruing
organizations in the City;
(b) Davao City Youth Development Division (DCYDD) - the Local Youth
Development Office (LYDO) of Davao City, herein referred to as the "DCYDDLYDO", shall refer to Davao City's youth development office created in
accordance with Republic Act No. t0742, otherwise known as the
"SANGGUNIANG Kabataan Reform Act of 20t5", as amended, and as created by
the applicable Ordinance of the City of Davao;
(c) Davao City Youth Development Plan (DCYDP) - shall refer to Davao City's
plan as initialty drafted by the SK Pederasyon, finalized by DCYDC and approved
by the Sanggunian. DCYDP shall be anchored on the local development plans
of the City Government of Davao and, as far as practicable, the Philippine Youth
Development Plan (PYDP);
(d) Local Chief Executive (LCE) - shall refer to the City Mayor of Davao City;
(e) National Youth Commission (NYC) - shall refer to the National Youth
Commission created under Republic Act No. 8044;
(fl Representativemembers - shall refer to the representatives of the Youth
Organizations or Youth-Seruing Organizations elected as a sitting member of
DCYDC;
(g) SANGGUNIANG Kabataan (SK) - shall refer to the SANGGUNIANG Kabataan of

Ord. No. 0307-23
(h) 5( Pederasyon - shall refer to the Pederasyon ng SANGGUNIANG Kabataan
of Davao City;
(i) Youth - shall refer to those persons whose ages range from fifteen (15) to
thity (30) years old as defined under Republic Act. No. 8044i
$) Youth Organizations - shall refer to those organizations whose membership
and/or composition are the youth; and
(k) Youth-Seruing Organizations - shall refer to those registered organizations
whose principal programs, projects and activities are youth-oriented and
youth-related.
ARTICLE II
THE DAVAO CrTY YOUTH DEVELOPMENT COUNCTT (DCYDC)
SECTION 4.gMfIClN - The Davao City Youth Development Council (DCYDC) is
hereby created which shall assist in the planning and execution of projects and programs of
the SK and the SK Pederasyon.
SECTION 5. COMPOSITION - (a) DCYDC shall be headed by the SK Pederasyon
President and shall be composed of at least ten (10), but not more than twenty-one (21)
members including the two (2) core members of the SK. The two (2) core members of the
SK shall be composed of the President and the Vice-President of the SK Pederasyon.
(b) The two (2) core members of the SK shall be suppofted by at least eight (8) but
not more than nineteen (19) representative-members from youth organizations or youthseruing organizations registered under the provisions of this Ordinance, provided that, all
other incumbent SK officials shall not be eligibte as members of DCYDC. The representativemembers shall serue for three (3) years unless removed for cause.
(c) As far as practicable, youth organizations and youth-seruing organizations shall
include, but not limited to, those whose core advocacies involve peace, out-of-school youth,
health, disaster, LGBTQ, Islam, faith, environment, community, PWD, indigenous peoples,
women, economic and academe.
SECTION 6.
- A
representative-member from a registered youth organization or youth-serving organization
of DCYDC must be a citizen of the Philippines, a resident of Davao City for not less than one
(1) year immediately preceding the day of his or her election to DCYDC, at least fifteen (15)
years but not more than thifi (30) years on the day of his or her election to the council, able
to read and write Filipino, English, or the local dialect, and must not have been convicted by
finaljudgement of any crime involving moral turpitude.
SECTION 7. DUTIES AND FUNCTIONS. - DCYDC shall discharge the following
duties and functions:
1. Assist in the planning and execution of projects and programs of the
SANGGUNIANG Kabataan Pederasyon;
2. Serue as the core of the advocacy on youth pafticipation in nation-building
and youth empowerment;
3. Finalize the three (3) year Davao City Youth Development Plan (DCYDP) that
is anchored in the development plans of the City Government of Davao and
the Philippine Youth Development (PYDP);

Ord. No. 0307-23
The DCYDP shall be initially drafted by the SK Pederasyon and shall be finalized
by DCYDC. This shall be submitted to the Local Chief Executive for inclusion in
the Local Development Plan and subsequently endorsed to the Sanggunian
Panlungsod of Davao City. These plans shall give priority to the programs,
projects and activities that will promote and ensure the meaningful youth
pafticipation anchored on the nine (9) centers for youth participation namely:
health; education; economic empowerment; social inclusion and equity; peacebuilding and security; governance; active citizenship; environment; and global
mobility;
4. Monitor and evaluate the implementation of the Davao City Youth
Development Plan;
5. Recommend policies to the local council; and
6. Peform such other functions as may be prescribed by law or Ordinance.
The DCYDC shall formally convene within one hundred (100) days to discuss and
formulate the DCYDP. As far as practicable, the DCYDC shall complete the DCYDP within one
(1) year from the date of the initial convening or within the time limit as may be set by DILG
and/or NYC.
SECTION 8. MEETINGS AND OUOROM - (a) The SK Pederasyon President shall
regularly convene the DCYDC quafterly to conduct consultations with youth organizations and
youth-seruing organizations. The SK Pederasyon President, or in his/her absence, the SK
Vice-President shall convene the council and shall preside over its meetings.
(b) The DCYDC shall schedule the quafterly regular meeting, and may schedule any
meetings as often as needed. If the SK Pederasyon President or Vice-President fails to
convene as scheduled, at least one-third (U3) of the total membership of the DCYDC may
call for the meeting. In all instances, a written notice shall be sent, either through traditional,
non-traditional, or electronic means, to all members setting the date, time, place, and agenda
of the meeting. It shall be ensured that such notice must be received at least two (2) days
before the intended date of meeting.
(c) The presence of the majority of all members of the DCYDC shall constitute a
quorum.
SECTION 9. ELECTION OF REPRESENTATIVE-MEMBERS - Within fofi-five (45)
days after the SK elections, the DCYDD-LYDO shall notify all presidents or authorized
representative of youth organizations or youth-seruing organizations duly registered under
this Ordinance of the date, time, and venue of elections of the representatives of DCYDC.
The elections may be made by consensus or secret balloting. They shall choose at least eight
(8) but not more than nineteen (19) representatives who shall serue for a term of three (3)
years in the DCYDC.
A youth organization or youth-seruing organization shall only have one (1)
representative-member in the DCYDC.
Should the representative-member fail to assume office, voluntarily resigns, dies, is
permanently incapacitated, or is removed from office, the youth or youth-seruing organization
shall immediately submit to DCYDD-LYDO the name of a substitute-representative who shall
have all the qualifications and none of the disqualifications for the said office and shall assume
the vacant position for the unexpired pottion of the term.
The DCYDD-LYDO shall facilitate the election of the representative-members through
election rules and regulations that it may promulgate taking into consideration the guidelines

Ord. No. 0307-23
set fofth under existing laws, rules and regulations, as well as the issuances of the DILG and
NYC.
ARTICLE III
REGISTRATION OF YOUTH ORGANIZATIONS
AN D YOUTH.SERVING ORGANIZATIONS
SECTION 10. CONDITION PRECEDENT - Youth organizations and youth-seruing
organizations intending to pafticipate in the DCYDC must be qualified, duly registered, and
verified under the provisions of this Ordinance. Local registration and verification of youth
organization and youth-seruing organization shall be a condition precedent for pafticipation
in the DCYDC.
SECTION 11. MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS - All youth organizations and youthseruing organizations intending to participate in the DCYDC must have at least ten (10)
members in good standing and must be operating within Davao City. They shall register with
the Davao City Youth Development Division - the Local Youth Development Office (LYDO) of
Davao City or DCYDD-LYDO. Youth and youth-seruing organizations registered in other
national agencies shall also register and may be recognized as registered organizations by
DCYDD-LYDO, provided that, these organizations operate within Davao City.
SECTION 12. LOCAT REGISTRATION AND VERIFICATION OF YOUTH
ORGANIZATIONS AND YOUTH-SERVING ORGANIZATIONS (a) All youth
organizations and youth-seruing organizations intending to pafticipate in the DCYDC shall
submit a verified application with DCYDD-LYDO. The application must be signed by the
President or duly authorized representative of the organization concerned. It shall include
pertinent information of such organization including, but not limited to, organizationt name,
official address, official e-mail, telephone and/or mobile numbers, list of officers and
members, sector and/or advocacy or advocacies represented, registration information from
NYC, if any, and other pertinent information or documents that DCYDD-LYDO may require.
It shall also include a statement that:
(i) the organization intends to pafticipate with DCYDD-LYDO;
(ii) the organization has at least ten (10) members in good standing;
(iii) has been in operation in Davao City for at least one (1) year;
(iv) has all the qualifications and none of the disqualifications to be registered
as such organization;
(v) must be registered with the Youth Organization Registration Program
(YORP) or if not yet registered, shall execute an undeftaking that the
organization shall register with YORP, with the assistance of DCYDD-LYDO,
within three (3) months from the time of local application for registration; and
(vi) should it be elected as paft of the DCYDC, it shall undeftake to designate
a representative-member who has all the qualifications and none of the
disqualifications to become such member.
(b) Upon receipt of the application, DCYDD-LYDO shall verify the registration
information provided by these organizations. After verification that the information
given are correct, DCYDD-LYDO shall accredit the organization, shall issue a certificate
to such effect and shall entitle the organization to be elected to be paft of the DCYDC.
The DCYDD-LYDO shall also send a list of registered and verified youth organizations
and youth-seruing organizations to NYC.

Ord. No. 0307-23
(c) The youth organizations and youth-seruing organizations shall renew their
registration with DCYDD-LYDO every three (3) years from the date of their
accreditation. DCYDD-LYDO shall adopt a continuing registration procedure taking into
consideration the budgetary and manpower requirements, the presence of youth and
youth-serving organizations, and the ease of doing business policies of the City
Government of Davao. The youth organization and youth-seruing organization must
remain in good standing by submission of its annual report with DCYDD-LYDO on or
before the last working day of February of the succeeding year covered by such annual
repoft.
ARTICLE IV
CAPABILIW.BUILDING AN D ORIE NTATION
TOWARDS NATION-BUILDING AND EMPOWERM ENT
SECTION 13.
- (a) For the purpose
of emphasizing the role of the youth in nation-building and molding them to become
better citizens with the values of patriotism, nationalism and honor as Filipino citizens,
the representative-members of the DCYDC shall undergo mandatory training
programs before they can assume office. During their incumbency, they shall attend
continuing programs to be undertaken by the National Youth Commission (NYC), in
coordination with the Depaftment of the Interior and Local Government (DILG).
Deliberate failure to attend said training programs shall constitute sufficient ground to
disqualify said DCYDC representative-member or subject them to disciplinary actions.
(b) The Mandatory Training Programs shall include the following components
(1) Philippine cultural history, political systems, ethics and ideologies;
(2) The Filipino as a nation builder;
(3) The Filipino youth and its role in nation-building; and (b) capability building
on leadership, program and project development and sustainability, financial
management, and accountability and transparency.
ARTICLE V
TRANSITORY AND FINAL PROVISIONS
SECTION 14. TRANSITORY PROVISIONS - (a) All registered youth and youthseruing organizations under existing executive orders, rules and regulations of existing Local
Youth Development ffice and/or by the City Social Welfare and Development Office
(CSWDO) of the City Government of Davao shall continue to be valid, subject to the provisions
on registration renewal and continuing registration under this Ordinance.
(b) The representative-members of the Local Youth Development Council created by
virtue of Executive Order No. 16-2021 shall continue to hold office untilsuch time their
successors shall have been elected following the provisions of this Ordinance after the
next SANGGUNIANG Kabataan elections.
SECTION 15. IMPLEMENTING RULES AND REGULATIONS (IRR) - The SK
Pederasyon, together with CSWDO, shall issue the Implementing Rules and Regulations (IRR)
necessary for the effective implementation of this Ordinance within one hundred twenty (120)
days from the effectivity hereof.
SECTION 16. SEPARABILIW CAUSE - If, for any reason, any SECTION or provision
of this Ordinance is declared unconstitutional or invalid by a court of component jurisdiction,
the remaining sections or provisions hereof not affected thereby shall continue to be in full
force and effect.
I

t
t.
PageT of 7
Ord. No. 0307-23
lJw lo
SECTION 17. REPEALING CLAUSE - All laws, decrees, Ordinances and other
administrative issuances or parts thereof which are inconsistent with the provisions of this
Ordinance are hereby modified, suspended, or repealed accordingly.
SECTION 18. EFFECTMW - This Ordinance shall take effect immediately after its
publication at least once in a newspaper of general circulation in Davao City.
ENACTED, on the 10th day of October 2023, by a unanimous vote of all the Members
of the Sanggunian, there being a quorum.
CERTIFIED CORRECT:
For and in the absence of the Secretary:
*1r/
MA. THERESA A. REYES
Acting Secretary to the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod
(Assistant Secretary to the SANGGUNIANG Pantunssod)7
ATTESTED:
J. ME
LCHoR B. QUrrArN JR.
/
Vice Mayor
Presiding Officer
mtar/mark
AFPROVED:
ll,n
2023
UTERTE
e
SE
ciV rtau;1r
ATTESTED:
H. LAYOG
Acting
AN ORDINANCE CREATING THE DAVAO CITY YOUTH DEVELOPMENT COUNCIL (DCYDC), DEFINING ITS
FUNCNONS AND PURPOSES, AND PROVIDING FUNDS THEREFOR
ATTY.