20th City Council
45s Regular Session
SERIES of 2023
PRESENT:
Republic of ffte Philippines
City,of Davao
J. Melchor B. Quitain Jr.
Marissa S. Abella
Nilo M. Abellera Jr.
Luna Maria Dominique S. Acosta
Pilar C. Braga
Richlyn N. Justol-Baguilod
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
C,ouncilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Edgar P. Ibuyan Jr.
- Temporary Presiding fficer
Bai Hundra Cassandra Dominique N. Advincula
Bernard E. Al-ag
Wilberto E. Al-ag
Al Ryan S. Alejandre
Dante L. Apostol Sr.
Conrado C. Baluran
Jessica M. Bonguyan
Louie John J. Bonguyan
Augusto Javier G. Campos III
Jonard C. Dayap
Diosdado Angelo Junior R. Mahipus
Rodolfo M. Mande
Kristine May John A. Abdul
Bonz Andre A. Militar
Temujin B. Ocampo
Myrna G. L'Dalodo-Ortiz
Alberto T. Ungab
Lorenzo Benjamin D. Villafuefte
Trisha Ann J. Villafuefte
Jesus Joseph P. Zozobrado III
ABSENT:
Vice Mayor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
- OB - Acting City Mayor
- On Domestic Emergenry Leave
- On Mourning Leave
ORDINANCE NO. 0354-23
SERIES of 2O23
AN ORDINANCE REGUIATING THE POLE USAGE AND POLE
WIRE INSTALLATION IN THE CITY OF DAVAO

Ord. No. 0354-23'
Be it ordained by the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod of Davao City in session assembled,
that:
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE This Ordinance shall be known as the
*AilTI.SPAGHETTI WIRE ORDINANCE OF 2023"
SECTION2.rc
CLUSTERED POLES - more than one (1) pole erected at one location with a
spacing of less than thirty (30) meters from each other;
DEAD WIRES - inactive wires of the utility company;
DOMINANT POLE - a pole erected and maintained in a specific location to
cater to wires and other attachments. Dominant pole must be able to
accommodate wires, attachments and other installations taking into account the
minimum safety, elevation, technical standards as set forth under existing
national laws and this Ordinance;
ONE POLE POLICY - the policy of the City Government of Davao that regulates
the number of poles erected at any specific location by prohibiting more than
one (1) pole erected at one location with a spacing of less than thifi (30) meters
from each other, unless otherwise allowed by the City Engineer's Office;
UTITIW COMPANY - a company that provides seruices to the general public,
such as, but not limited to, the following: electricity, telephone and internet, and
cable television systems;
TELCO - a company that provides seruices to the general public, such as
telephone, internet, and cable television systems.
SECTION 3. .OVERAGE- This Ordinance shall apply to areas within Davao City.
This Ordinance shall be subject to and shall not prejudice the provisions of City
Ordinance No. 0177-14, SERIES of 2014.
SECTION 4.
- No pole shal! obstruct
and impede any road right of way, sidewalks, and a!!eys.
In cases of road and other infrastructure projects with affected poles, the City
Engineer's Office or the Department of Public WorK and Highways (DPWH) shall notify
pole owners with affected poles of the commencement of the said road and other
infrastructure projects. The latter shall immediately put up additional safety notices and
initiate measures for poles, attachments, and installation transfer, if necessary.
The transfer of poles and its attachments and installations after completion of a
road and other infrastructure projects shall not be longer than one (1) month from
receipt of a Notice of project phase completion issued by the City Engineer's Office or
the Department of Public Works and Highways (DPWH). The pole owner shall, upon
receipt of a Notice of project phase completion, immediately notify all other utility
companies with pole attachments in the area and shall immediately cause the removal
and transfer of affected poles.

Page 3 of9
'
Ord. No.0354-23
SECTION 5. W
- Unless otherwise allowed under this
Ordinance, clustered poles on sidewalks, roadside, parks and any public places shall not
be allowed.
SECTION 6.
1. Where existing pole cannot accommodate additional electrical, internet,
cable-W, and other communication wire and/or equipment installation;
2. Where there is no existing pole on road crossing or intersection and where
existing pole and/or attachments are difficult to transfer, hence necessary to
erect a new pole; and
3. Where the existing pole is a sub-transmission pole or a pole in relation to,
connected to or within the scope of Republic Act 11361 or the "AntiObstruction of Power Lines Act'C'RA 11361');
Other analogous cases determined by the City Engineer's Office;
In all instances, all utility companies must comply and abide by the provisions of
RA 11361 with regard to protecting the integrity and reliability of the country's
transmission, sub-transmission, and distribution systems by keeping the land beneath,
the air spaces surrounding and the area traversed by power lines clear of dangerous
obstructions.
SECTION 7.
- In all cases, the
City Engineer's Office shall determine the pole of least usage and shall recommend the
transfer of installations to a single dominant pole and immediately order the removal of
the unused pole in accordance with this Ordinance, provided that the single dominant
pole shall be upgraded to carry the weight of the attachments and meet the minimum
elevation of utility company's lines, wires, and cables.
The dominant pole shall be identified by the City Engineer's Office based on pole
capacity for allowable weight, tension and height requirements of utilities for both
existing and future attachments.
The utility companies affected shall be furnished with a notice of removal from
the City Engineer's Office for the removal of their poles and the transfer of their
installations to the dominant pole within seven (7) days from receipt of notice.
SECTION 8. NONDISCRIMINATORY ACCESS - The dominant pole owner
shall provide nondiscriminatory access to all utility companies intending to attach their
lines to the dominant pole and all related suppoft structures and right of way in
exchange for the payment of the pole attachment fee, subject to uniform applicable
terms and conditions to all attaching entities, affiliates or subsidiaries.
Provided, the dominant pole owner may validly deny in writing a pole
attachment request by a utility company only by reason of recognized standards of
safety, industry practices or generally accepted engineering principles.

Ord. No.0354-23
Provided fufther, in case where the request for pole attachment has been denied
or the attachment was removed due to an emergeflc/, and thereafter the reason for
such denial or removal ceases or additional capacity becomes available for a pole
attachment, it shall be offered to the utility company whose request was denied or
attachment was removed before offering it to other potential utility/telco companies,
its affiliates and subsidiaries.
Any removal not due to an emergency shall require prior written notice to the
attaching entity.
SECTION 9. NON-AVAILABILITY OF UTILITY POLES- RELATED
SUPPORT STRUCTURES AND RIGHTS OF WAY - In case utility poles, related
support structures and/or rights of way used or useful, in whole or in part, in the
transmission of W or telecommunications signals are not available for pole attachment,
legitimate cable TV operators and telecommunications companies shall have the option
to secure and use their own poles, provided the following requirements are complied
with:
a. That the said utility poles, related support structures and rights of way shall be
secured and used by legitimate cable W operators and telecommunications
companies at their own cost and responsibility;
u. That the said utility poles, related suppoft structures and rights of way shall be
secured and used with due reference to the recognized standards of safety,
industry practices and generally accepted engineering principles;
c. That the said utility poles, related support structures and rights of way shall be
subject to the same pole attachment rules and regulations imposed by this
Ordinance.
Where in the future another utility company has pole requirements in the area
to serue its customers, the One Pole Policy in SECTION 4 will apply.
SECTION 10. ELEVATION - All utility companies are hereby required to
increase and adopt the minimum height for veftical clearance of all its power lines/wires,
telecommunication and internet cables, and cable television cables to safe height in
crossing, traversing and along the roadways of Davao City as recommended by the City
Engineer's Office.
SECTION 11. TELCO BRACKET - Utility Companies that own poles within
Davao City shall install brackets on their respective poles where telecommunication,
internet and cable television cables are to be attached. These brackets shall be installed
at a height of not less than twenty (20) feet from the ground and shall have a
designated horizontal space assignment of telco cables. In the event the bracket is
already full of cables, the pole owner is required to install another layer.
SECTION 12. BEE..ICI.IIMP - Pole owners shall install a pole clamp at nineteen
(19) feet from the ground to hold telco drop wires/subscriber lines.
SECTION 13. REMOVAL OF UNUSED LINES AND CABLES - All telcos are
required to remove their unused or inactive lines and cables. Pole owners shall remove
their unused or inactive Iines and cables whose ownership can no longer be traced.
All utility companies shall submit to the City Engineer's Office their Unused
Telecommunication Lines and Cables Removal Plan for the year indicating important
information such as pole number and/or coordinates, street name, barangay and target

Page5of9 ,
Ord. No.0354-23
completion date. Update of the activity'shall be repofted monthly to the City Engineer's
Office and shall be submitted not later than every second Friday of the month for the
previous month accomplishment. Dangling and unsafe lines and cables shall be
prioritized and removed immediately.
SECTION 14. PHASING OUT OF TELCO COPPER LINES, WIRES, AND
CABLES - Telcos are discouraged from using copper lines, wires and cables as pole
attachments in order not to cause so much tension on utility company's poles. The
Telcos may establish a complete phase out plan for copper lines as pole attachments.
SECTION 15. TELCO MAINTENANCE OR EXPANSION LOOP - There
shall only be a maximum of two (2) telco maintenance or expansion loops per pole
with a maximum diameter of 1.5 feet and a maximum of ten (10) turns.
SECTION 16. UPGRADING OF TELCO NETWORK ACCESS POINT
(NAP) - To limit the number of Network Access Points (NAP) on poles, telcos may
upgrade their existing Network Access Points (NAP) to cater more subscribers. The
number of Network Access Points (NAP) boxes per pole shall be limited to four (4),
unless otherwise allowed by the pole owner provided that there shall be no obstruction
to the pole tags/pole numbers.
SECTION 17. COLOR CODING OF CABLES - All utility companies shall mark
their cables according to their respective color assignments to facilitate easy
identification particularly for removal, repairs & maintenance.
The City Engineer's Office, in consultation and coordination with the private and
public utility companies, shall immediately assign color assignments for utility
companies operating in the city.
SECTION 18. CABLE HANGER - Each Telco shall install a cable hanger along
midspan with spacing of less than one (1) meter. Telco cables extending from pole to
the next pole shall be placed in the cable hanger to avoid it from dangling.
SECTION 19. VERTICAL CLEARANCE LIMITER - The City Engineer's
Office or the Department of Public Works and Highways (DPWH) shall install vertical
clearance limiters at strategic roads falling within their jurisdiction to prevent the
passage of trucks with a gross height of more than the allowable gross height as
provided under the Traffic Code of the City.
SECTION 20. ROAD HEIGHT - To maintain the elevation of the road thereby
maintaining the veftica! clearance of Telco cables and power lines from the ground,
the City Engineer's Office or the Department of Public Works and Highways (DPWH)
shall scrape old asphalt overlay before application of new asphalt overlay in order to
maintain the road elevation and standard vertical clearance requirement of Telco
cables and power lines.
SECTION 21. CABLE SLIDER^/COWLTNG ON TOP OF TRUCKS -
Truck owners and/or operators are encouraged to install cable slider or cowling on top
of the truck if the gross height of their vehicle reach 4.5 meters to prevent dragging
of low-lying lines, wires, and cables of utility companies.

Page 6 of9 '
Ord. No.0354-23
SECTION 22. PRIORITY AREAS - Utility companies shall within six (6) months
from the effectivity of this Ordinance, prioritize the installation of pole attachment
bracket and tension limiters on the following areas:
a. Along roads with low lying telco cables as determined by both power and telco
companies;
b. Along roads frequently passed by big trucks as determined by the city traffic
management team;
c. Along roads where main power and telco cables pass through as determined
by the utility companies;
d. On major thoroughfares such as, but not limited to the following:
o Quirino Avenue
. MagsaysayAvenue
o Quezon Boulevard
. Castillo Avenue
. Cabaguio Avenue
. Ma-a Road
o F. Torres Street
o J.P. Laurel Avenue
o Davao-Cotabato Road
o Daan Maharlika Highway (from Lanang to Lasang)
. Cabantian Road
o Indangan Road
. Bacaca Road
. MacAfthur Highway
o Matina Aplaya Road
. Ecoland Drive
o Whole Downtown Area/Downtown Streets
o Toril Area
o Calinan Area
SECTION 23. WIRE INSTALLATION - Except in areas where the
underground cabling project has been implemented underCity Ordinance No. 017714, there shall be a designated specific wire crossing locations in city roads and
along national highways. Unless otherwise allowed by the City Engineer's Office in
roads along rural areas, Telco Wire crossing along roads shall be on road intersections
and shallalways be perpendicular to the road. Diagonal and skewed wire crossing
installations may only be allowed in the absence of a connecting pole allowing
perpendicular crossing, provided that the wire shall only be attached to the nearest
pole.
Laying of wires shall at all times make use of and be attached to poles along its
path
Electrical and Telco Drop wires or subscriber wires shall at all times be laid to a
utility subscriber from the nearest utility pole.
Prior to removal or transfer of poles and dangling wires and cables as well as
installation of new poles, power and main telco lines in their jurisdiction, there shall be
coordination with the Barangay concerned,

PageT of 9 .
Ord. No.0354-23
SECTION 24. COMPLIANCE PERIOD - All installations of utility companies
are given three (3) years from the effectivity of this Ordinance to be fully compliant
with the following regulations:
1. Elevate utility lines, wires and cables to at least EIGHTEEN (18)
FEET (5.48 meters) high from the road;
2. Attach telephone, television cable systems, internet cable systems,
telecommunication lines and cables on pole attachment brackets;
3. Remove the unused and inactive lines, wire and cables;
4. Correct all substandard installations; and
s. Comply with all other provisions of this Ordinance.
The foregoing period notwithstanding, low-lying utility lines posing danger to
safety, security, and operation of businesses and communities shall be immediately
elevated.
SECTION 25. COMPLIANCE PLAN - Upon effectivity of this Ordinance, all utility
companies shall submit to the City Engineer's Office their Ordinance Compliance Plan
for the year as set out in SECTION 24 hereof , indicating therein important information
such as pole number and/or pole coordinates, street name, barangay and target
completion date. Update of the activity shall be reported monthly which will be
submitted not later than every second Friday of the month for the previous month
accomplishment.
SECTION 26. ADMINISTRATM PENALTIES -At the end of the Compliance
Period under SECTION 24 hereof, all utility companies and their service contractors in
violation of the provisions of this Ordinance shall immediately be serued with a
*NOTICE OF VIOI-ATION AND/OR COMPLIANCE ORDER' by the City Engineer's Office.
Failure to comply with the "NOTICE OF VIOLATION AND/OR COMPLIANCE
ORDER" issued by the City Engineer's Office within seven (7) days from receipt thereof
shal! be subject to an administrative penalty of THREE HUNDRED PESOS (P300.00)
per pole per day until compliance.
All Telco utilities shall be primarily liable for the payment of the administrative
penalties as set forth herein.
The manager of Telco utilities seruice contractors in violation of this Ordinance
shall also be informed of the violation and shall be required to submit an explanation
within seven (7) days from receipt of the "NOTICE OF VIOLATION AND/OR
COMPLIANCE ORDER" issued by the City Engineer's Office. For this purpose, the utility
companies shall maintain and make available the record of Telco utilities seruice
contractors.
Non-payment of administrative penalties and non-compliance of paragraph 4 as
set forth under this SECTION shall be a ground for the non-renewal of business permits.
SECTION 27. IMPLEMENTATION, INSPECTION AND COMPLIANCE . A
random audit and inspection shall be conducted by the City Engineer's Office to check
on the Utility Company's compliance to this Ordinance. A "NOTICE OF VIOLATION

.r
Ord. No.0354-23
AI{D/OR COMPLIANCE ORDER" shall be serued to the utility company for any failure
to comply with the standards required by this Ordinance.
The City Engineer's Office shall, in coordination with power and
telecommunication utilities in the city, conduct a year-end assessment and
coordination meeting with the PI-ANNING AND DESIGN DIVISION of the District
Engineering Offices and Regional Offices of the Department of Public Works and
Highways.
The City Engineer's Office shall conduct the necessary meetings with power and
telecommunication utilities in the city for the proper and efficient implementation of
this Ordinance.
SECTION 28. IMPLEMENTING RULES AND REGULATIONS - The City
Engineer's Office shall formulate the Implementing Rules and Regulations (IRR) for
the approval and issuance of the City Mayor within sixty (60) days from the effectivity
of this Ordinance.
Failure of the concerned agencies to promulgate the Implementing Rules and
Regulations (IRR) shal! not prevent the implementation of this Ordinance upon its
effectivity. This Ordinance shall be deemed in full force and effect even in the absence
of an Implementing Rules and Regulations (IRR).
SECTION 29. APPROPRIATION- The City Government of Davao shall
continuously appropriate sufficient funds for the implementation and enforcement of
this Ordinance through an appropriation either in the City's annual budget or in any of
its supplemental budget, as the case may be.
SECTION 30. REPEALING C1AUSE -All Ordinances, issuances, rules, and
regulations or pafts thereof inconsistent with the provisions of this Ordinance are hereby
repealed, amended, or modified accordingly.
SECTION 31. SEPARABILIW CLAUSE - If , for any reason, any SECTION or
provision of this Ordinance is declared unconstitutional or invalid, other sections or
provisions hereof not affected by such declaration shall continue to be in full force and
effect.
SECTION 32. EFFECTIVITY - The provisions of this Ordinance shall take
effect upon approval.
ENACTED, on the l*day of December 2023, by a unanimous vote of all the Members
of the Sanggunian, there being a quorum.
CERTIFIED CORRECT:
Secretary to the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod
(City Government Department Head II)
'' 04,n'6\W
CHARITO N.gANTOS

t\
i'
't
+
-
)
Prmident Pro
Temporary Presiding ffier
cns/kjtq
f
Pale 9 of9
Ord. No.0354-23
C
ATTESTED:
APPROYED:
FFB N 5 202{
Z. DUTERTE
2AiE
I
ATTESTED:
AITY.
H. LAYOG
Act'rg
ministrator
AN ORDINANCE REGUTATING TTEPOLE USAGE AND TOLE WIRE INSTALLATION IN THE CITY
OF DAVAO
cirv uavp