I
2oth city Council
43d Regular Session
SERIES of 2023
PR,ESENT:
City of Eavao
Ofrice of the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod
Marissa S. Abella
Nilo M. Abellera Jr.
Temujin B. OcamPo
- On Domestic EmergencY Leave
l. Melchor B. Quitain Jr.
- Presiding Officer
Luna Maria Dominique S. Acosta
Bai Hundra Cassandra Dominique N. Advincula
Bernard E. Al-ag
Wilberto E. Al-ag
Al Ryan S. Alejandre
Dante L. Apostol Sr.
Conrado C. Baluran
Jessica M. BonguYan
Louie John J. BonguYan
Pilar C. Braga
Augusto Javier G. CamPos III
Jonard C. DayaP
Edgar P. IbuYan Jr.
Richlyn N. Justol-Baguilod
Diosdado Angelo Junior R. Mahipus
Rodolfo M. Mande
Kristine May John Abdul Mercado
Bonz Andre A. Militar
Myrna G. L'Dalodo-Ortiz
Alberto T. Ungab
Lorenzo Benjamin D. Villafuerte
Trisha Ann J. Villafuerte
Jesus Joseph P. Zozobrado III
Vice Mayor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
ABSENT:
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
- OB - Attended the Training Program for
the IICA Grassroots Project in Kitakyushu,
Japan
ORDINANCE NO. 0331-23
SERIES of 2023
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING ORDINANCE NO. 0407'12, SERIES OF
2OL2, ENTITLED'AN ORDINANCE REQUIRING ALL ESTABLISHMENTS,
ryHEfHER coMMERcrAt, TNDUSTRIAL oR FTNANSTAL rNsTrTUTIoNs,
WITH CAPITALIZATION OF NOT LESS THAN THREE MILLION PESOS
IRSTOOOrOOO.OO), INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, BANI(S,
iawnsiropS, tiismumNTt slloPPING MALls, HoTEls AND__INN5,
EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS, HOSPITAL AND MEDICAL
rNsnTuTIONS, GAIIING COCKPITS (SABUNGAN), PRn ATE
TRANSPORT TERJTIINALS OPERATING ON LAND, AIR OR SEA
oPERATING WITHIN THE CITY OF DAVAO,il TO INSTALL, OPERATE,
AND MAINTAIN CLOSED CIRCUIT TELEVISION (CCW) CAMERAS IN
PUBLTC/CoMMoN AREA/S',

Ord. No. 0331-23
Be it ordained by the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod of Davao City in session assembled, that:
SECTION 1. rTItE - This Ordinance shall be known as *THE AMENDED CCTV
ORDINANCE OF DAVAO CfW.'
SECTION 2. nECLARATION OF POLICY- The City Government of Davao, pursuant
to SECTION 16 of Republic Act No. 7160 or the Local Government Code of 1991, shall o<ercise
the powers expressly granted, those necessarily implied therefrom, as well as powers
necessary, appropriate, or incidental to its efficient and effective governance, and those which
are essential to the maintenance of peace and order, the protection of life, liberty, and
Fropefi, and the promotion of general welfare which are essential for the enjoyment by all the
people of the blessings of democracy.
The City Government of Davao shall enforce this Ordinance prioritizing peace and public
safety but without compromising the fundamental right to the perconal and data privacy of
every person. It shall recognize the vital role of information and communications technology in
nation-building and its inherent obligation to ensure that personal information in information
and communications systems in the government and in the private sector are secured and
protected.
SECTION 3. nEFINITION OF TERJIIS- For purposes of this Ordinance, the following
shall be defined as follows:
(a) Closed Circuit Television (CCTV) System - is a television system in which signals
are not publicly distributed. Cameras are connected to television monitors, which are
placed in a limited area, and are commonly used in surueillance systems;
(b) Commercia! Establishments - shall include but not be limited to office buildings,
hotels, motels, hospitals, condominiums, stores, apartments, supermarkets, schools,
studios, stadia, parking areas, memorial chapels/parks, watercraft and aircraft used
for business or profit, and any other building/s or area/s for business purposes,
where electronic or electronically-controlled machinery or equipment are installed
and/or are being used, sold, maintained, assembled, manufactured or operated;
(c) Financial Establishments - are establishments that focus on dealing with financial
transactions, such as banks, financing companies, trust companies, insurance
companies, investments, loans and deposits, money changers and the like;
(d) Industrial Establishmenb - are establishments where one or several people are
employed in manufacturing, fabricating, altering, making up or changing from one
shape into another material for sale, use or consumption, irrespective of the
products;
(e) Personal Infiormation Controller (PIC) - refers to a person or organization who
controls the collection, holding, processing or use of perconal information, including
a person or organization who instructs another penson or organization to collect,
hold, process, use, transfer or disclose perconal information on his or her behalf. The
term o<cludes:
1. a person or organization who performs such functions as instructed by another
person or organization; or
2. an individual who collects, holds, processes, or uses personal information in
connection with the individual's perconal, family, or household affairs.
There is control if the natural or juridical person, or any other body decides on
what information is collected, or the purpose or extent of its processing;

Ord. No. 0331-23
(f) Personal Information Prccessor (PIP) - refers to any natural or juridical person
or any other body to whom a PIC may outsource or instruct the processing of
personal data pertaining to a data subjec!
(g) Public/Common Area - is an indoor or outdoor area of commercial, financial or
industrial establishments, to which the public has access by right or by invitation,
express or implied, whether by payment of money or not, which includes, but is not
limited to, display areas, lounges, office areas, parking areas; Provided, that indoor
areas shall not include inside comfort rooms and other private rcoms or areas
designated for confidential use of clients such as safety deposit box areas and the
like;
(h) Tampering - shall refer to any of the following acts:
. altering, destroying, suppressing, or concealing any part of altered or fabricated
CCTV footage with intent to impair its verity, authenticity, legibility, availability, or
admissibility as evidence in any investigation of or official proceedings in, criminal
cases, or to be used in the investigation of, or official proceedings in, criminal
CASCS;
o giving of false or fabricated CCTV footage to mislead or prevent law enforcement
agencies from apprehending the offender or from protecting the life or property
of the victim;
making, presenting, or using the whole or any paft of the CCTV footage with
knowledge of its falsity and with intent to affect the course or outcome of the
investlgation of, or official proceedings in, criminal cases; or
a
. fabricating the information gathered in confidence with the use of CCTV for
purposes of background information and not for publication, publlshing, or
disseminating the same to mislead the investigator or the court.
[From P.D. No. 1829 PENALIZING OBSTRUCTION OF APPREHENSION AND
pRosEcuTroN oF cRrMrNAt oFFENDERSI
(i) Thid Pafi Recodings - refer to any type of film or recording that wholly or
partially captures a CCTV footage with the use of any kind of recording device.
sEcTIoN4.Thisordinancesha]lbeapplicabletothe
following:
4.1. PRTVATE ESTABLISHMENTS
(a) All businesses with a declared minimum capital of Three Million Pesos
(P3,000,000.00) and above, operating within the City of Davao;
(b) Businesses with a declared minimum capital not exceeding Three Million Pesos
(P3,000,000.00), but fall under the following enumeration:
(1) Financial establishments such as banks, pawnshops, money remittance
seruices, money changerc, cooperative lending establishments, lending or loaning
businesses and others whose principal line of business falls within similar
transactions.
(2) Business establishments that are part of a national chain or have several
branches in other parts of the country such as restaurants/fast-food chains,
convenience stores, grocery stores, drug stores, appliance stores, computer and
gadget stores, hardwares, etc.

Ord. No. 0331-23
(3) Shopping malls, shopping centers, supermad<ets, groceries, mini-marts, and
other similar establishments.
(4) Educational institutions, review centers, tutorial centers, skills and
enhancement training institutions, private daycare and child minding centers, and
other similar esta blishments.
(5) Dormitories, hotels, motels, inns, bunkhouses, hostels, roadhouses, driveinns, and other similar establishments.
(6) Factories, packing houses, warehouses, industrial compoundq workshops,
refrigeration plants, and other similar industrial establishments.
(7) Condominiums, apartrnents, penthouses, boarding houses, tenements, and
other residential rental establishments.
(8) Commercial rental establishments, commercial arcades, tenements or
buildings, office or store spaces for rent to multiple occupants.
(9) Hospitals, laboratories, clinics, pharmacieq rehabilitation centers, and other
medical centers and facilities.
(10) Theaterc, movie houses, arcades and play areas, internet cafes and pisonets
with more than five (5) units, cockpits or sabungan, casinos, resorts, conference
or convention centers, ballrooms, dance hallg discos, event areas, and other
places of enteftainment or gatherings that draw in a considerable number of
customers.
(11) Airports, sea or river ports, transportation terminals, parking buildings or
lots, and other similar establishments that cater to a large number of vehicles.
(12) Car dealerchips, motorcycle dealerships, gasoline or fuel stations, vehicle
maintenance and seruice stations.
(13) Guns and ammunition shops, military industrial complex, armory, firing
ranges, and other similar weapon shops.
(14) Other business establishments or areas which the City Government deems
proper considering the nature of business and potentia! risK in their respective
areas.
4.2. PUBLIC AREAS
(a) Fixed checkpoints chosen and situated in an area by an official responsible for
making overall decisions as to the most effective allocation of limited enforcement
resources.
(b) Wlthln the respective territorial jurisdiction of Barangays in the City of Davao, to be
installed at specific areas as determined by the City Government of Davao through the
Public Safety and Security ffice (PSSO), together with the respective Barangay
fficials.
(c) Areas near places of worship, religious places or sacred spaces, major roadways,
parks, playgrounds, public areas of conveyance as determined by the City Government
through the PSSO.

Ord. No. 0331-23
For purposes of this Ordinance, the City Government of Davao, through the PSSO, shall be
the PIC for CCWs in Public areas.
SECTION 5. MINIMUM TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS. - The CCrV system to be
installed shall be maintained in proper working order at all times, shall be in continuous
operation, and must meet the following minimum specifications:
(a) For business establishments with a minimum capital of Three Million Pesos (P3,000,000)
and above:
CAMERA
- 0.1 Lux Minimum Illumination
- 2.8mm to 3.6mm Focal Length
- Auto-Iris Focus Lens (fixed/vari-focal)
- 1/30s to 1 /50,000s Shutter SPeed
- > 50-meter Infrared Range
- 120d8 Wide Dynamic Range
- pan and Tilt adiustment of 0 degrees to 180 degrees and Rotate adjusffinent of 0 degrees to
- High-Definition Analog or at least 2 Megapixel Digital Camera
360 degrees
- Outdoor cameras must be vandalwith IP 66 Weather
STORAGE
For Network Camera:
-Hard Disk Drive (HDD) and/or cloud recording
-surveittance Type lfoi SO days recording, should have 4TB to 8TB capacity depending on
camera type and configuration; up to four (4) CCTVs)
For Standalone:
-MicroSDHC (8GB to 32GB)
-MicroSDXC (64G8 to 128G8)
VIDEO AUDIO INPUT
Analog signal), Minimum of four (4) camera input
- Video and Audio Stream InPut
- H.264 (Advanced Video Coding) Video Compression and G.71 1u Audio Compression
- 30 frames-per€econd (FPS) recording capability per camera
- Analog nigir-Oefi nition input (1080p@25FPS, 1080p@30FPS, 720p@25FPS, 720p@30FPS)
- Hard Dis[Orive and/or cloud recording storage system with enough capacity to accommodate
the prescribed retention period below. (4TB Capacity is approximately sufficient for 40 days of
recording for DVR with 4 cameras at 1080p)
- Hybrid Type (accePts Digital and
- Time stam
feature
VIDEO AUDIO OUTPUT
- 720p or 1080p resolution
.30 FPS
- At least 10 Megabits per second (Mbps) Video Bitrate and at least 64 Kilobits (Kbps) Audio
Bitrate
OTHER SPECIFICATIONS
- Centralized power supply for the Video
- Uninterruptible Power Supply (UPS) to
Recorder and Cameras
provide standard and reasonable back-up power to the
Video Recorder and Cameras

Ord. No. 0331-23
(b) For all other business establishments: [Specs below as submitted by CITC]
SECTION 6. INSTALIITION GUIDE. - The following Installation Guide shall be
followed:
CAMERA
Network Camera with a minimum requirement of:
-Focal length 3.6mm or 2.8mm
-Maximum 30fps @1080p
-2MP
-IP66 or IP67 or
Standalone Camera with :
-Panfl-ilt Home Security Wi-Fi Camera
-High-Defi nition Video 1080p
-Visual Distance of up to 30ft
-Locally stores 16 days with 128 GB of miooSD card
STORAGE
For Network Camera:
-Hard Disk Drive (HDD) and/ or cloud recording
-Surueillance Type (For 30 days recording, should have 4TB to 8TB capacity depending on
camera type and configuration; up to four (4) CCT/s)
For Standalone:
-MicroSDHC (8GB to 32GB)
-MicroSDXC (64G8 to 128GB)
-Time stamping feature
INSTALLATION
- Cameras must be installed at a secure location with maximum area of coverage of
entrances/exits and areas of transaction or risk, making sure that there will be no blind spots.
- Video recorders must be mounted at secure or concealed locations to protect them from
deliberate tampering.
- CCWs should be installed in well-lit areas and with consistent lighting to pick-up identifying
details, such as facial features.
- The angle of the cameras should be considered to avoid lens flare and backlighting.
- The following objectives and recording distance when installing CCTV Cameras shall be
determined: General Surueillanc€ = 10 feet or greater, Facial Recognition = 5 to 7 feet, Plate
Recognition (for Parking Lots; = 3 to 4 feet.
- When possible, a back-up rystem should be installed alongside the CCTV system to ensure
that data is kept secure in the event of physical harm to the storage devices such as fires,
earthquakes, any form of deliberate tampering, and other similar situations.
- When possible, dummy CCTV cameras should also be placed in a conspicuous area to deter
possible criminal acts and protect the cameras.
- Signages indicating that the establishmenVarea is being monitored by a CCTV System must
also be installed in areas that are visible and obvious to the public, and must use clear, plain,
and concise language.
- At least one (1) staff or employee should be trained to operate the CCTV System.

Ord. No. 0331-23
sEcTIoN7.@-AlIthosementionedunderSection4.1(a)and
(b) hereof shall be reqlired to install CCWs as to afford a full coverage of the following:
(a) From the interior of the establishment:
(i) All entrances and exits;
(ii) The center of business activity in the establishment according to the nature,of
business/operations of the establishment, such as: tellers, cashiers, cash registers, sales
counters, or areas leading to the vault, the main lobby, office space, sales area, event
area, etc.
(b) From the exterior of the establishment (when the establishment is not located inside a
mall, arcade or building or when the entrance to the area is not enclosed or is open to
the road or Parking area):
(i) All entrances and exits;
(ii) From the entrances and exits, a clear view of the area to and from the street(s)
ibutting the establishmen! including frontage thereof -taking into particular
consideration the clarity of shots in relation to the angles thereof;
(iii) Parking lots and drive-through lanes (when applicable)'
Establishments under SECTION 4.1 (a) must install at least four (4) cameras and
establishments under SECTION 4.1 (b) must install at least two (2) cameras. Additional
cameras should be placed when necessary due to the space of the establishment and
the nature of the business to cover all areas stated in this Ordinance.
SECTION g. REGULATION AND COMPLIANCE. - No business establishment
covered by this OrOinance operating within the City of Davao shall be allowed to conduct
business without installing, operating, and maintaining a CCTV system in accordance with the
minimum technical specifliations, installation guide and minimum coverage as provided. under
Sections 5, 6 and 7 of this Ordinance. Accordingly, business establishments are required to
submit before the Business Bureau of the City Government of Davao an Affidavit of Undertaking
stating that the PSSO has issued a Certificate of Compliance in their favor regarding the
installation of the required CCTV.
As provided under SECTION 11 of this Ordinance, the PSSO, in coordination with the City
Information Technology Center (CITC), shall send duly authorized representatives to inspect
the premises of all buiiness establisnments covered by this Ordinance prior to the issuance of
their Business permits by the Business Bureau of the City Government of Davao. For this
purpose, the pSSO shall coordinate with the Business Bureau, with regard to the business
esta bl ishment's com pl ia nce with th is ord i na nce.
Existing establishmenB covered by this Ordinance with existing and duly issued permits,
but have no existing CCTV System, shall be granted a period of thifi (30) days from written
notification of the Business Bureau or PSSO to comply with the provisions of this Ordinance. An
extension of another thirty (30) days may be granted under reasonable grounds; Provided, that
no further extension shall be allowed thereafter.
Exisgng establishments covered by this Ordinance with existing CCW Systems installed
that do not meet the specifications contained in this Ordinance shall be allowed a one (1) year
depreciation period of tne previously existing CCTV System prior to installing/upgrading to the
CCny System in accordance with the required specifications under this Ordinance. The business
establishment shall thus be allowed one (1) year from its next renewal of business permit to
comply with the aforementioned specifl catlons.

Ord. No. 0331-23
The PSSO and Business Bureau, through their authorized representatives, shall have the
power to inspect, during reasonable business hours, depending on the nature of the business,
all existing business establishments that are covered under this Ordinance, even without prior
notice to the business owner, at least once a year, to ensure compliance.
To protect business establishments from any fraudulent machinations, PSSO authorized
representatives must first present both identification and Order to Inspect to the respective
business owners or its duly authorized representatives before conducting the inspection
required under this Ordinance.
Failure to comply with this SECTION shall subject the covered business establishment to
penalties in accordance with the provisions of this Ordinance.
SECTION g.LBIJASt - All the establishments required to install CCWs under
SECTION 5 hereof shall comply with the following guidelines on privacy:
Establishments covered shall strictly comply with the National Privacy Commission's
(NPC) guidelines on the use of CCTV Systems, as detailed in SECTION 4 of NPC Advisory No.
2020-04, to wit:
A.Transparenq. PlCs and PIPs shall provide CCTV notices which are readily visible and
prominent within their premises, such as at points of entry or other conspicuous areas.
The CCW notices shall provide information to the public that there is a CCW system in
operation in clear, plain, and concise language.
B. CCTV poliry. PICs and PIPs are required to have a policy governing the operation of
CCTV systems. Such policy shall provide details on the following:
1. Designation of an authorized personnel who shall have access to and responsibility
for the operation, control, and monitoring of the CCW system;
2. CCTV notice/s and placement thereof;
3. Procedure for requests for immediate access to CCW footages and providing a
recording or copy thereof when requested;
4. Retention period of CCTV footages and manner of disposal/ destruction thereof when
period of retention has lapsed;
5. Security measures to be implemented for the protection of CCW footages against
any unlawful inteference or interception, unauthorized access by copying, recording
or viewing, accidental or unlawful destruction, alteration, and disclosure, as well as
against any other unlaMul processing;
6. Conduct of regular evaluation and audit of security measures and whether the use of
CCTV remains to be justifled; and
7. Process for the regular review and assessment of the policy and its revision, if
necessary.
It shall be the responsibility of the PICs/PIPs to disseminate and appraise its employees
or personnel of the CCTV Policy of the business establishment and ensure faithful obseruance
thereto.

Ord. No. 0331-23
For establishments with several branches within Davao City and a home/main office
outside of Davao, it shall be the responsibility of the home/main office to designate a PIC/PIP
or Officer-in-Charge of the CCTV Systems of its branches. Failure of the homelmain office to
designate such PIC/PIP or Officer-in-Charge shall subject the business establishment to
penalties under this Ordinance.
C. Location and placement To ensure that CCW systems capture footage in a manner
consistent with the Data Privacy Act (DPA), the location and angles of the cameras must
be carefully considered. CCWs shall only be used to monitor the intended spaces, taking
into consideration the purpose for monitoring the same.
The use of CCTVs in areas where individuals have a heightened expectation of privacy
(r.e. fitting rooms, rest rooms, toilets, lactation or breastfeeding rooms, and other similar
places) is prohibited.
D. QualiU and integrity of data. CCIV systems shall record images that are of suitable
quality to meet the purposes for which it was installed or intended. PICs shall implement
reasonable and appropriate safeguards to ensure and maintain the integrity and
accuracy of the footage recorded and stored, including any associated metadata (r.e.
time, date, and location), and to facilitate access requests for CCW footage.
E. Data Priuaq Commitmenf Private establishments and the City Government of Davao
through PSSO, as PICs, shall ensure the implementation of organizational, physical and
technical measures for data privacy and data protection. lfnom the suggestion of
NPCI
SECTION 10. VIEWING OF AND ACCESS TO RECORDINGS. -
10.1 If, at any time, law enforcement authorities have a reasonable belief that a crime
has been committed and a CCTV system of a private establishment has video coverage
of the said event or that any part of the recording may aid in the investigation of such
event, the owner of the establishment or the PIC, shall, in the interest of public safety,
make the camera recordings immediately available for viewing to law enforcement
authorities or officers of the court engaged in civil, criminal, or administrative processes
or investigation upon the written request of the person in charge of the operation or
upon showing a Mission Order of the duly authorized or designated officer thereof with
the particular date and time covered by the request therein specified, following the
existing standard operating procedures in the conduct of an investigation, and other
pertinent laws, orders, rules and regulations governing the same.
For establishments with several branches within Davao City and a home/main office
outside of Davao, the absence of a designated PIC/PIP or Officer-in-Charge of the CCTV
System shall not be an excuse for noncompliance of this SECTION. To this end, the
manager or person in charge of operations of the branch shall allow law enforcement
authorities to immediately view camera recordings in cases of hot pursuit or whenever
time is of the essence in an ongoing investigation.
Failure of the owner of the establishment or PIC to comply with this subsection shall be
penalized under SECTION 12 (e) of this Ordinance, without prejudice to any other
liabilities said owner or PIC may incur for obstruction of justice and other laws.
10.2 If a crime has been committed, or the operator, employee, or owner of the
establishment has reason to believe that a crime has been committed and has been
recorded by the CCTV, the operator, employee, or owner of the establishment shall
immediately contact the nearest Police Station (PS) and shall provide access to the
pertinent recordings to the police and other investigators,

Ord. No. 0331-23
10.3 For purposes of subsections 10.1 and 10.2, law enforcement authorities who have
not secured the paper wanants are only allowed to view the video footage and shall not
be allowed to take photos and videos or make copies of the video footage in any form or
manner.
The captured video footage or images, including CCTV records, tapes, discs, or media,
may be obtained and used at any time to satisfy the written order or subpoena of any
court or body with competent jurisdiction.
10.4 Video footage captured through the CCW Systems shall be retained for a
minimum period of one (1) month in order to allow investigating authorities to properly
retrieve and prepare back-ups of the data relevant to any incidents that occur. Upon
exceeding the prescribed period, video footage may be permanently deleted from the
system and al! existing forms of back-up, unless a court order has been serued
preventing or holding the deletion of the same.
However, no CCW footage shall be deleted despite the lapse of the one (1) month
period in the following instances:
(a) Upon the formal request of any person who is the subject of such footage, who has
applied to the courts for the preservation of the same, until such time when the
court order or authority has been issued;
(b) Upon notification by the law enforcement agencies to the owner or to his or her duly
authorized representative regarding the commencement of a criminal, civil or
administrative investigation and during the period for application of a cybercrime
warrant;
In accordance with SECTION 3.1, SECTION 3 of the Rule on Clbercrime Warrants, the
required retention or preseruation of the CCW footage under the above enumeration
must be for a minimum period of six (6) months, unless law enforcement authorities
issue an order for an extension of another six (6) months. Such order of extension by
law enforcement authorities shall be made one-time only.
Absence of a recording or any paft thereof within the prescribed period constitutes a
prima facie evidencethat the same has been deliberately deleted.
10.5 For purposes of maintaining peace, order and public safety, captured video
footage of a crime or incident subject to an ongoing investigation shall not be released
by the operator, employee or owner of the business establishment to any person solely
for entertainment purposes.
Any CCW footage or third paty recordings of the said CCTV footage shall not be
released without a lawful purpose, unless the subject of the footage has consented to
the same.
10.6 Other than the foregoing, the operator, employee, or owner of the business
establishment shall give any person whose image is recorded on a CCTV system the
right to reasonable access and/or be supplied with a copy of their own personal data
from the footage, subject to the provision of SECTION 13 of NPC Advisory No. 202044, to
wit:
PICs may refuse to provide a copy of CCTV footages or access thereto in the
following instances:
a. Incomplete information regarding the requested CCTV footage;

Ord. No. 0331-23
b. The access request is frivolous or vexatious. The determination of what
constitutes frivolous or vexatious may be made on the basis of the
pafticular circumstances of the request;
c. Purpose for viewing or obtaining a copy of the footage is contrary to
law, morals, or public policy;
d. The burden or expense of providing access would be unreasonable or
involve dispropoftionate effort on the part of the PIC or PIP;
e. The footage has been deleted by the time the PIC receives the request,
pursuant to its documented retention poliry; or
f. If sharing the footage could put an ongoing criminal investigation at
risk.
Should the PIC deny a request for CCW access, it shall provide the
requesting pafi with a justiflcation for such denial.
sEcTIoN11.-TheCityGovernmentofDavao,through
the PSSO, shall be responsible for the verification and determination of the relevant
establishments' compliance with the directives of this Ordinance. PSSO shall speciff when
compulsory inspection of the installed CCWs shall be conducted before the necessary clearance
or certification thereof may be issued, which clearance or ceftification shall be a mandatory
requirement for the issuance or renewal of the business permit or license by the Business
Bureau.
PSSO may thereafter conduct inspections during reasonable business hours, even
without notice to the business or establishment owner to determine continued compliance with
this Ordinance, post-issuance or upon renewal of such establishments' business permit or
license by the Business Bureau.
sEcTIoN12.@-Thefollowingareprohibitedactsunderthis
Ordinance and shall subject the concerned business establishment to the penalties provided for
in SECTION 14:
(a) Failure to install a CCW system in accordance with Sections 5, 6, and 7 of this
Ordinance;
(b) Failure to maintain an existing CCIV system in accordance with the minimum
technical requirements under Sections 5, 6, and 7 of this Ordinance, subject to the
one (1) year depreciation period under SECTION 8;
(c) Failure to develop, devise, or formulate a CCW Policy, failure to designate a PIC/PIP
or fficer-in-Charge of the CCTV System, and failure to properly apprise its
employees of such CCTV Policy as provided under SECTION 9 of this Ordinance;
(d) Refusal to allow the entry of the authorized representatives of the PSSO or Business
Bureau during reasonable business hours to inspect the CCTV system;
(e) Failure to allow the immediate viewing of the CCTV recording, or unjustifiable delay
in granting the request despite the presentation of the proper documents by the
person in charge of the investigation or a mission order;
(f) Failure to surrender the CCTV records, tapes, discs, or media to law enforcement
authorities or officers of the court despite due process, through a written order or
subpoena, under SECTION 10 of this Ordinance;

Ord. No. 0331-23
(g) Failure to obserue persons'right to privacy under SECTION 9 of this Ordinance;
(h) Making public any CCTV footage to the detriment of an ongoing criminal
investigation, or using any recording contrary to law, morals and public policy in
relation to SECTION 10 of this Ordinance;
(i) Deletion of the recordings or any portion thereof within the retention period under
SECTION 10 of this Ordinance;
fi) Tampering or providing a tampered copy of CCTV footage that will result in
falsification of CCIV footage or obstruction of justice;
(k) Falsely representing himself or herself as a duly authorized representative of the
PSSO or the Business Bureau to inspect business establishments and/or gain access
to CCW recordings;
(l) Failure to put up the proper notices which are readily visible and prominent in areas
where a CCW System is monitoring, in cases of private establishments only.
sEcTIoN13.M-Businessestablishmentsviolatinganyofthe
provisions of this Ordinance shall suffer the following penalties, to wit:
13. 1. ADMINISTRATIVE SANCTIONS
(a) Non-issuance, suspension, or revocation of business permit for noncompliance with Sections 5, 6, and 7 of this Ordinance for new
establishments;
(b) In case of existing establishments' failure to install and maintain the CgfV
system after the establishment has been granted the time to comply with this
Ordinance, the establishment shall be closed for failure to comply with the
requirements of a business permit, until the same has complied with in
accordance with this Ordinance;
L3.2. PENALW PROPER
(a) A flne of Five Thousand Pesos (P5,000.00) for:
(i) Failure to install and maintain the CCTV system;
(ii) Failure to develop, devise, or formulate a CCTV Policy, failure to designate a
PIC/PIP or Officer-in-Charge for the CCTV System, and failure to properly apprise
its employees of such CCTV Policy;
(iii) Refusing to allow the entry of the authorized representatives of the PSSO or
Business Bureau during reasonable business hourc to inspect the CCW system;
(iv) Failure to allow the immediate viewing of the CCIV recording, or unjustifiable
delay in granting the request despite the presentation of the proper documents
by the person in charge of the investigation or a mission order;
(v) Failure to surrender the CCTV records, tapes, discs, or media to law
enforcement authorities or officers of the court despite due process, through a
written order or subpoena, under SECTION 10 of this Ordinance;

Ord. No. 0331-23
(b) A fine of Five Thousand Pesos (P5,000.00) and imprisonment of not more
than one (1) year in case of tampering or providing a tampered copy of CCW
footage that will result in falsification of CCIV footage or obstruction of
justice, or failure to obserue person's right to privacy, without prejudice to the
prosecution or filing of any other case;
(c) A fine of Three Thousand Pesos (P3,000.00) in all other cases under this
Ordinance and for each commission of the same offenses thereafter.
In case of a single proprietorship, the owner shall be made liable for the violation
of this Ordinance.
Likewise, the managing paftnerc, in cases of partnerships, and the president,
secretary and/or such other officers in charge of managing the business as
provided in the by-laws, in cases of corporations, shall be made perconally liable
for the violation of this Ordinance in instances involving juridical entities.
In the absence of evidence to the contrary, the manager and/or operator shall be
presumed to be the owner of the business under this Ordinance without
prejudice to the application of other laws and regulations.
SECTION 14. AppEAL PROCESS FOR ADMINISTRATryE SANCTIONS. - Any
business establishment found to be liable for the administrative sanctions under of SECTION 13.1
of this Ordinance, by any of the Implementing ffices under SECTION 11, may appeal the
findings thereof to the City Mayor's Office (CMO) within five (5) working days from being
notified of its violation by the Implementing Office/s concerned. The business establishment
must furnish a copy of the appeal to the Implementing Office/s concerned prior to the filing
thereof with the Office of the Mayor.
Within five (5) working days from receipt of the copy of the appeal, the Implementing
Office/s concerned shall submit its/their answer to the CMO, furnishing the business
establishment a copy of the same. Should the Implementing Office/s fail to flle its/ their ansruer
to the appeal within the given period, it/they shall be deemed to have opposed the appeal on
all its material points. The CMO shall decide on the matter within five (5) working days from
receipt of the ans:wer of the Implementing Office/s concerned or from the day the period of
flling therefore has lapsed, giving due notice to the parties involved. The decision of the Mayor
shall be final, and no motion for reconsideration shall be enteftained thereafter, without
prejudice and subject to such remedial measures as may be then available under other laws,
rules and regulations or the Rules of Court.
SECTION 15. CREATION OF TECHNICAL WORKING GROUP ffWG)
Chairperson: City Mayor's Office (CMO)
Secretariat: Public Safety and Security Command Office (PSSO)
Memberc:
(1) Business Bureau
(2) City Information and Technology Center (CITC)
(3) City Legal ffice
(4) Davao City Police Office (DCPO)
(5) Department of the Interior and Local Government (DILG) - Field Office
(6) Task Force Davao (TFD)
(7) National Bureau of Investigation (NBI) XI - SEMRO
(8) Two (2) Representatives of the Private Business Sector

Ord. No. 0331-23
SECTION 16. IMPLEMENTING RULES AND REGUTATIONS (IRR) - The Technical
Working Group CfWCI snal, within thirty (30) days after the Ordinance has been approved,
draft ttre necessary Implementing Rules and Regulations (IRR) for the approval of the City
Mayor's ffice (CMO). irlevertheless, failure of the concerned agencies under the preceding
SECTION to promulgate an IRR shall not prevent the implementation of this Ordinance upon its
effectivity.
SECTION 17. INFORMATION, EDUCATION, AND coMMuNIcAqg,N
CAMPAIGN. - The City tnformation Technology Center (CITC), Business Bureau, PSSO,
together with the City Information Office (CIO), shall conduct a continuing information,
ed-ucation, and communication campaign on the CCw monitoring within the City of Davao, on
the impact of the implementation of this Ordinance.
SECTION 1g. REVIEW OF CCTV ORDINANCE. - The City Information Technology
Center (CffC), together witn tne implementing forces of this Ordinance, shall conduct a review
of the igrv ipeclfications provided in this Ordinance every five (5) years to ensure that the
speciflcations and matterc concerning the CCTVs are properly addressed.
sEcTIoN19.@-Anyordinance,localissuancesorrules
inconsistent with tne provisions of this Ordinance are hereby repealed or modified accordingly.
SECTION 20.
- If, for any reason, any SECTION of this
Ordinance is declared unconstitutional or invalid, the other sections or provisions hereof which
are not affected thereby shall continue to be in full force and effect.
SECTION 21. EFFECTryITY- This Ordinance shall take effect immediately fifteen (15)
days upon approval, posting and publication in a newspaper of local circulation.
ENACTED, on the 21'tday of November 2023, by a unanimous vote of all the Members
of the Sanggunian, there being a quorum.
CERTIFIED CORRECT:
arMn.LM
Secretary to the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod
(City Government Department Head ll) t4
ATTESTED:
MELC,+#.B. QUITAIN JR.
,/ viceMayor
/Presiding Officer
cns/iosh

Ord. No. 0331-23
APPROVED. DEC 22 M
2023
DUTERTE
cibt Mav2y !
ATTESTED:
ATTY.
H. IAYOG
inistrator
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING ORDINANCE NO. MO7-L2, SERIES OF 2012, ENTTLED "AN ORDINANCE
REQUIRING ALL ESTABUSHMENTS, WHETHER COMMERCIAL, INDUSTRIAL OR FINANCIAL
INSTITUTIONS, WITH CAPITAUZATION OF NOT LESS THAN THREE MILLION PESOS (P3,000,000.00),
INCLUDING, BW NOT UMITED TO, BANKS, PAWNSHOPS, RESTAURANTS, SHOPPING MALLS, HOTEIS
AND INNS, EDUCATIONAL INSTITLTEONS, HOSPITAL AND MEDICAL INSTITLMONS, GAMING COCKPITS
(SABUNGAN), PRIVATE TRANSPORT TERMINALS OPERANNG ON I-AND, AIR OR SEA OPERATING WIHIN
THE CITY OF DAVAO," TO INSTALL, OPERATE, AND MAINTAIN CLOSED CIRCUIT TELEVISION (CgrV)
CAMERAS IN PUBUqCOMMON ARETy'S"