ti
20tt' City Council
3d Regular Session
SERIES of 2023
PRESENT:
Vice Mayor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Office of ttre SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod
J. Melchor B. Quitain Jr.
- Presiding Officer
Marissa S. Abella
Nilo M. Abellera Jr.
Luna Maria Dominique S. Acosta
Bai Hundra Cassandra Donrinique l'.1. Advincula
Bernard E. Al-ag
Wilberto E. Al-ag
Al Ryan S. Alejandre
Dante L. Apostol Sr.
Conrado C. Baluran
Jessica M. Bonguyan
Louie John J. Bonguyan
Pilar C. Braga
Augusto Javier G. Campos III
Jonard C. Dayap
Edgar P. Ibuyan Jr.
Richlyn N. Justol-Baguilod
Diosdado Angelo Junior R. Mahipus
Rodolfo M. Mande
laffar U. Marohomsalic
Bonz Andre A. Militar
Temujin B. Ocampo
Myrna G. L Dalodo-Oftiz
Albefto T. Ungab
Lorenzo Benjamin D. Villafuerte
Trisha Ann J. Villafuefte
Jesus Joseph P. Zozobrado III
ABSENT:
Councilor Edgar R. Ibuyan Sr.
nn
rr^-J^l
!L^
t:--
- \,rD- Attcilucu Lile Lrgd ilg
mga Barangay National
Executive Board (NEB)
Meeting/Assembly in Manila
OR.DINANCE NO. 0156.23
SERIES of 2023
AN ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING A COMMUNITY.BASED
PROGRAM FOR HEATTHY Al{D PRODUCTIVE AGEING OF
SETTIOR CITIZENS AND PROVIDITTG FREE PACKAGE OF
ESSENTIAL HEALTH, WELLNESS AND OTHER EQUITABLE
SERVTCES TO PROMOTE THE QUALTTY OF LIFE OF THE
OLDER ADUITS, AND PROVIDING FUNDS THEREOF
ii

Ord. No. 0155-23
Be it ordained by the Honorable SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod of Davao City, in session
assembled, that:
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE - This Ordinance shall be known as the *HEALTHY
AND PRODUCTIVE AGEING ORDINANCE OF DAVAO CTilO.
SECTION 2. DECLARATION OF POLICY - The Local Government of Davao City
acknowledges the mandate of the 1987 Philippine Constitution pafticularly Article II, SECTION
D(, which states that "The State shall adopt an integrated and comprehensive approach to
health development which shall endeavor to make essenUal goods, trealth, and other social
seruices available to all people at affordable cost. There shall be priority for the needs of
the underprivileged, sick, elderly, disabled, women and children".
Fufthermore, Republic Act No. 9994 or the "Expanded Senior Citizens Act of 20L0'
provides that a Healthy and Productive Ageing Program for senior citizens shall be provided.
This program prinrarily ainrs to promote quality life anrong older persons and contribute to
nation building through providing equitable access to quality healthcare.
In addition, relevant laws such as Republic Act No. 1L223 or the "Univercal Health
Care Act", pafticularly SECTION 6 (a) states that "Every Filipino shall be granted immediate
eiigibility and access to preventive, pronrotive, curative, iehabilitative and palliative care for
medical, dental, mental, and emergency health services, delivered either as a populationbased or individual-based health services. Moreover, Republic Act No. 10645 or the Act for
the Mandatory PhilHealth (PHIC) Coverage for all Senior Citizens states that "All senior
citizens shall be covered by the national health insurance program of PhilHealth."
Lastly, Depaftment of Health Administrative Order (DOH-AO) 2015-0009 or the
"National Policy on the Health and Wellness Program for Senior Citizens" further solidifies
the various legal mandates and direct the Local Government Units on organizing the seruice
delivery networks in managing and implementing the health and wellness program for senior
citizens activities, passage of necessary local legislation to inrplement the activities and
provide counterpart funds for implementing their invesUnent plan that supports the healthy
and productive aging of the senior citizens (a.k.a. older adults).
The City also affirms the value of the Filipino tradition of caring for the older adults
who also took care of us and in recognizing their contribution to the community as we look
upon for their guidance in making Davao City a better place to live in.
The City recognizes the valuable contribution of the older adults, and commits to the
improvement of their well-being by providing a "Healthy and Productive Ageing Program",
a community-based program, exclusive for clients 60 yearc old and above, who are residents
of Davao City'. It shall cater basic health seruices needed by older adults and it shall be
progressive and other health programs shall be integrated to meet the needs of the clientele.
SECTION 3. DEFINITION OF TERMS
a) Ageiiig - at the biological level, is a process resulting from the impact of the
accumulation of a wide variety of molecular and cellular damage overtime, which leads
to gradual decrease in physical and mental capacity, a growing risk of disease and
ultimately death (WHO).

-1
Ord. No. 0156-23
b) Geriatrician - is a physician who is specially trained to evaluate and manage the
unique healthcare needs and treatment preferences of older people. He/ She is a
Board-Certified Internist or Family Physician who has additional training and
certifi cations in geriatrics.
c) Healthy and Productive Ageing Program - focuses on promoting the health
and wellness of older adults and alleviating the conditions of older percons who
are encountering degenerative diseases. This program primarily aims to promote
quality life among older persons and contribute to nation building through
providing equitable access to quality healthcare and provide the necessary
seruices to promote the quality of life of older persons.
d) Home Visitation - A professional, purposefu! interaction that takes place in the
family's residence aimed at promoting, maintaining or restoring the health of the
family or its members.
e) Medical Nutrition and Diet Therapy (MNDT) - a key component of holistic
nutrition education and management. MNDT is defined as a "nutrition-based
treatment provided by a Registered Nutritionist-Dietitian". It includes "a nutrition
diagnosis as well as therapeutic and counselling services to help manage certain
health conditions/disease". Fufther providing medical nutrition and diet therapy
through the application of nutrition care process for the purpose of disease
prevention, promotion and management that promotes nutritional health and
well-being of individuals, groups, communities and population.
f) Nutritionist-DietiUan or a Registered ilutritionist-Dietitian (Rt{D) - a
licensed professional in the field of nutriUon and dietetics that provides medical
nutrition and diet therapy to people with ceftain health conditions through the
application of the Nutrition C.are Process (RA No. 10862, or the Nutrition and
Dietetics Law of 2016).
g) Senior Citizens or older adults or advance-aged adults - refer to the
following: (a) any resident citizen of the Philippines at least sixty (60) years old;
(b) must be registered to their respective Office of Senior Gtizen Affairs (OSCA),
and (c) must have an OSCA ID upon availment of services.
SECTION 4. CWEBAQE - The services shall be made available to the senior citizens
in Davao City.
SECTIOil 5.
- The seruices shall be
provided to percons who must possess the following qualifications:
1. Must be at least sixty (60) years old; and
2. Must be a holder of an original Senior Citizens Card (OSCA ID) issued by the
Senior Citizens Affairs (OSCA) of Davao City.
In the absence of the OSCA ID, a birth certificate or any govemment issued valid ID
may be presented as proof, fur validation of the identity and age of the beneficiary.
In case there is absence of proof of identity and age of the beneficiaries, they will be
refened to the OSCA representaUve within the center for further appropriate assistance as
necessary.

Ord. No.0156-23
SECTION 6. SERVICES -The DCHPAC shall serue as a community-based program and
provide free basic medical seruices such as, but not limited to, the following:
Medical Seruices:
. Comprehensive Geriatric Screening
o Medical Consultation
. Medicines, supplies, logistics and assistive device
o Vaccination
o Health education and promotion
. Consultation and Education on Medical Nutrition and Diet Therapy
. Oral Health Services
o Dementia preventive and care
. Early screening for cancer
o Physical fitness exercise
o Health and wellness promotion, and disease prevenUon
. Counselling
. Telemedicinefl-eleconsulting
o Philippine Package of Essential Non-Communicable Disease Services (PhilPEN)
o Individual based health service package for older adults
. Others
As a holistic approach, it shall cater not only to medical or physical needs, but shall also
encompass mental and psychological needs of the older adults. It shall also cater to older adult
clients through referral and appropriate programming under the TUPAD or "Tulong
Panghanapbuhay sa Ating Disadvantaged or Displaced Workers" program of the Depaftment of
Labor and Employment (DOIE).
As a Community-based program, there should be joint efforts and responsibilities among
the health personnel, program paftners and agencies, patients, and their respective families,
allied medical team and other related persons, as mentioned in Sections 8,9, 10 and 11of this
Ordinance, within the community to achieve the objective and proper implementation of this
Ordinance.
Home Visitations shall be done, as deemed necessary, initiated by the Public Health
Physician, Public Health NuEe, Rural Health Midwife and/or other appropriate public health
professionals with assistance from the Barangay Health Workers (BHW), Barangay Health
Volunteers, Barangay Nutrition Scholars (BNS) and Social Workers where the patient resides.
A Seruice Delivery Network shall be established for purposes of referring seruices not
covered by this Ordinance to apprcpriate agencies.
Upon the commencement of its operation, the initial fund mentioned in SECTION 12 of this
Ordinance shall be used for Medical, Dental and Operational services.
SECTION 7. CENTRAL OUTPATIENT GERHTRIC CENTER AND IMPTEMENTING
DISTRICT HEALTH CENTERS - The City Health ffice (CHO) shall be responsible for the
overall implementation of the Davao City Healthy and Productive Ageing Program (DCHPAP)
including the deployment of its personnel provided in SECTION 8 of this Ordinance.
The Sta. Ana Health Center as a core site for the implementation of the program which
shall provide a package of essential health services to older persons of Davao City. It shall be
equipped with laboratory facilities to respond to the needs of patients therein.
The program shall be used as the primary out-patient seruice provider for geriatric
services of the entire Davao City.
a

Ord. No. 0156-23
It shall cater cases refened to it coming from different Health Districts who needs to
be seen, assessed, and managed by a geriatric medicine specialisUgeriatrician.
Geriatric Training of the healthcare personnel shall be provided or done prior to ib
operation.
In completing the one-stop shop approach, the City Social Welfare and Development
Office - Office of the Senior Citizens Affairs (CSWDO-OSCA) shall provide a desk and human
resources/representative of their office in DCHPAC. They will be the main referral for nonhealth/medical related matters of the older adult. Their service may include the following,
but not limited to:
. RegistraUon of the Senior Citizen (if not yet registered);
. Orientation on the benefits fur Senior Citizens;
. OrientaUon on the use of their OSCA Records Booklet;
. Orientation on the services of OSCA and DCHPAC;
. Information desk regarding services related to Senior Citizens;
. Conduct of referral within LGU and NGAs as appropriate
. Others
All health centers and barangay health stations with trained personnel on geriatric
shall implement the National Healthy and Productive Ageing Program.
As part of Davao LGU's commitment to create a Senior Friendly and Supportive
Environment for older adults, public spaces such as parks, walking lanes steppers as well as
facilities (stationary bikes) shall be provided to promote physical activities (indoor and
outdoor) and ensure safety among them.
SECTIOI{ 8. HUMAil RESOURCES REOUIREMENT, DUTIES AND
RESPONSIBILffiES - The Davao City Healthy and Productive Ageing Center (DCHPAC)
to be established in Sta. Ana Health Center shall have the following personnel:
a) Public Health Physician- There shall be one (1) Physician assigned and shall
have the following duties and responsibilities:
. Formulates Annual Healthy and Productive Ageing Operational Plan;
. Superuises the overall operations of the center;
o Assess and manage patients;
r Formulates referral criteria and establish two-way referral system;
. Navigates referral of cases (teleconsulVface-to-face) from the health
districts to the geriatrician of DCHPAC; and
. Conducts regular monitoring and evaluation of the program
implementation in DCHPAC.
b) Geriatrics Medical Specialist (Geriatrician) - There shall be one (1)
Geriatrician hired as a consultant or under a Contract of Service (contract
renewable yearly) with the fullowing duties and responsibilities:
Conducts medical consultation ence or twice weekly in DCHPAC to
attend to cases needing specialisfs care and management;
Evaluates and manage c:ttss with complicated medical and social
problems and those patients refened from the different health districts
for fufther/specialty assessment and management;
Acts as adviser to the Healthy and Productive Ageing Program of Davao
City;
Acts as resource speaker in Healthy and Productive Training and
refresher courses for the health care providers.
e
a
a
O

Ord. No. 0156-23
c) Dentist - There shall be one (1) Dentist and shall make dental seruices daily
with the following duties and responsibilities:
. Provides oral checkup and teachings to clients;
. Pefforms tooth extraction;
. Performs orai prophylaxis/dental cleaning and dental scaling to clients;
. Peforms dental filling or tooth restoration to clients;
. Pefforms dental mold/cast preparation for dentures and facilitate
provision of dentures, if deemed necessary;
. And other tasks deemed essential.
d) Nutritionist- Dietician -There shall be one (1) Nutritionist- Dietician assigned
and shall have the following duUes and responsibilities:
. Provides adequate and comprehensible Basic Nutrition Education to
the clients
. Prepares meal plan for the client;
. Counsels the client on the importance of Food Diary and healthy food
choices; and
. Monitors the practice of actual prescribed diet by the patient through
the Food Diary.
e) Nurce/r There shall be three (3) Nurses to be assigned in DCHPAC and shall
have the following duties and responsibilities:
. Implement the National Healthy and Productive Ageing Program which
encompasses but not Iimited to the following:
. Vital Signs taking;
. Perform Geriatric screening on the paUent;
. Refer clients if with positive screening findings to the physician for
Comprehensive Geriatric AssessmenU
o Carry out medical orders and medical prescription;
. Provide Health Education;
o Monitor and follow up progress of the patient and refer accordingly;
. Facilitate both internal refenal to other seruice providers within the
center as well as external referral to other levels of care and other
agencies and instituUons (both government and private);
. Conduct honre visitation, if deemed necessary;
. Prepare and submit reporb to the City Health Office;
. Superuise infection control and safety in the facility; and
. Pefform other functions and activities related to the program.
O Medical Technologist - There shall be two (2) Medical Technologists with the
following functions:
. Responsible for the licensing of the Medical Laboratory in the Center;
. Perform laboratory tests requested; and
. Preparc and submit repofis.
g) Social Worker - There shall be one (1) social worker to be assigned with the
the following duties and responsibilities:
i

Page 7 of tA
Ord. No.0156-23
. Assess the client for economic, financial, family and other social
concerns and needs;
. Create and implements Treatnent Plan;
. Secure and refer needed resources;
. Evaluate and monitor improvemenU and
. Serve as "client advocate".
h) Nursing Aides - There shall be three (3) Nurse Aides assigned and shall have
the following duties and responsibiliUes:
Assist in the recording of vital signs and other procedures as deemed
necessary;
Clean, disinfect and sterilize supplies, instruments, and equipment;
and
Assist in home visitations.
i) Clerks - There shall be three (3) Clerks assigned and shall have the following
duties and responsibilities:
. Receive letters and communication and file and route the same as
appropriate;
o Act as medical records officers when designated;
. Encode patients data and paper in the electronic management system;
. Advocate on the patient's confidentiality and data privry of patient's
medical records; and
. In charge of patients'data and endorsing the same to the respective
Barangay Health Centerc where the patient may reside;
j) Administrative Aide - There shall be one (1) Administraffve Aide assigned
and shall have the following duties and responsibilities:
In charge of the supplies, files and keeps records of the equipment
received in the facility; and
May act as a llalson officer whenever necessary.
k) Driver - There shall be one (1) Driver assigned and shall have the following
duties and responsibilities:
o Maintains the issued vehicle in working condition and report if it needs
repairs;
o Maintains cleanliness and orderliness of the assigned vehicle; and
. Safely delivers the health team as scheduled.
l) Utility Worker - There shall be one (1) Utility Worker assigned and shall have
the following duties and responsibiliUes:
. Maintains the cleanliness and orderliness of the facility;
. Monitors and reports the functionality of the utilities like busted
elecUlcal bulbs, leaklng pipes, and clogged water closets and
drainage, etc.; and
. Assists the memberc of the healthcare team when deemed necessary.
a
o
a
a
a
I

?
Ord. No. 0156-23
SECTION 9. PROGRAM PARTNERS AND AGEIICIES -The Program Partners and
Agencies for the DCHPAC are as follows:
1.
City Mayo/s Office;
2.
Vice Mayo/s Offie;
3.
Committee on Heattsr,'
4.
Committee on Women, Children, and Family Relations
5.
Committee on Social Services;
6.
City Social Welfare and Development Office (CSWDO);
7.
Office of Senior Cifizens Afrirs (OSCA);
8.
Liga nE mga Barangay;
9.
Depaffinent of Health (DOH);
10. Philippine Health Insurance Corp. (PhilHealth);
11. Southern Philippines Medical Center (SPMC) - Geriatrics Depaftment;
t2. Technical Education and Skills Development Authority (IESDA);
13. Departnent of Social Welfure and Development (DSWD);
L4. Depailrnent of Labor and Employment (DOLE);
15. Federation of Senior Citizens AssociaUon of Davao City (FESCA);
16. Representative from National Government Agencies;
17. Representative from Barangay Health Workers;
18. Representative from the ftivate Sector; and
19. Representative from the Civil Society Organizations.
The Program Paftnens and Agencies shall form the Healthy and Productive
Ageing Technical Working Group. The Technical Working Group (TWG) headed
by the City Mayor as Chairperson sftaH harrc the following roles and
responsibilities:
2.
3.
4.
5.
B
Ensures the provision of budget for the effective implementation of the
program;
Ensures that the ordinances and polies are enfured;
Advocates for the Older Adults or Aged - A friendly and supportive
environment built for the older adults;
Develops legislation and policies to promote health and wellness of the
older persons and improve quality of life, in partnership with other
stakeholders and sectors;
Helps provide and support equitable health financing to develop,
implement, sustain, monitor, and continuously improve quality health and
social programs accessible to the older persons;
Provides guidance and assistance in developing standards to ensure safety
and accessibiliff of atl heatth facilities;
Helps enhance the capacity of health providers and other stakeholders,
including senior citizens group in the implementation of health programs;
Helps strengthen coordination and collaboration among government
agencies, non-government organizations, paftner agencies and other
stakeholders invotved in the implernentation of programs fior senior
citizens;
Helps strengthen the health systems to make them responsive to the
needs of senior citizens through the provision of acceptable, accessible,
available and effective health seruices across continuum of care; and
Helps strenffien evidence-based policyand decision making foraging and
health;
10.

Ord. No.0156-23
SECTION 10. DUTIES AND RESPOilSIBILMES OF OLDER ADULT CLIENTS,
RESPECTM FAMILIES AND OTHER MEMBERS OF THE HOUSEHOTD - The duties
and responsibiliUes of older adult clients, their respective families and other members of the
household are as follows:
The client's family members and other members of the household shall
accompany their client as they come for medical consultaUon;
The family mernber or caregiver shall be provided with basic knowledge on
geriatric syndromes and other health concerns of older persons, including its
impllcatlons to health, preventlon and management;
The family member or caregiver shall be taught or trained on the standard of
care for older persons to ensure continuum of care at home for better health
outcomes for older persons;
The family member/caregiver shall be partrer in promoting health and quality
of life of the older adults; and
A social worker, BHWBNS shall assist, if deemed necessary, the senior citizen
living alone for medical consultation or availment of medical seruices.
SECTIOI{ 11. AILIED ]IEDICAI TEAII - TtE DO{PAC may aceg str&}ts of
allied health and medical professions approved by the Gty Health Office through a
Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) to undergo oposure trainings and related-learning
experiences in the center as well as in the community to develop knowledge, skills, attitudes,
values and competencies required of their respective profession. Existing policies and
prdoco+s rdatlve to shdgrts'trainings ard/s afEliaffims !n the s*er shatt be trhured.
SECTION 12. BUDGET ALLOCATION - For the establishment of DCHPAC, the City
Health of Davao shall allocate an initial amount of Five Million Pesos (P5,000,000.00) for its
establishment.
SECTIOI{ 13. SEPARABILITY CLAUSE - The provisions of this Ordinance are
hereby declared separable and in the event that anyone or more of such provisions are
declared invalid, the validity of all other provisions shall not be affected thereby.
SBCTIOilI t4'. REPf,ALIilG CtIt SE - Alt ordinarrces, resolutitrls, rules or
regulations which are inconsistent with or contrary to the provisions of this Ordinance are
hereby repealed, amended or modified accordingly.
SECTIOil 15. EFFECTWITY - This Ordinance shall take effect fifteen (15) days
after its publication in at least three (3) newspapers of general circulation in Davao City.
ENACTED, on the 246 day of January 2023, by a unanimous vote of all the Members
of the Sanggunian, there being a quorum.
CERTIFIED CORRECT:
a
a
o
a
a
^ Cl^nni )1^/^^
CHARITO N. SANTOS
Secretary to the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod
(City C,wemmert Departmstt Xead tfu

r
,
ATTESTED:
Ord. No. 0156-23
APPROVED:
.tur 1 1
2023
2023
Z. DUTERTE
w May?l l
J.
B. QUTTAIN JR.
Mayor
fficer
cns/kjtq
ATTESTED:
ATTY.
H. LAYOG
Acting
AN ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING A COMMUNITY-BASED PROGRAM FOR HEALTHY AND PRODUCTIVE
AGEING OFSENIORCMZENSAND PROVIDING FREE PACKAGE OF ESSENTIAL HEALTH, WELLNESS
AND OTHER, EQUITABLE SERVICES TO PROMOTE THE QTAUTY OF UFE OF THE OLDER ADULTS,
AND PROVIDING FUNDS THEREOF
a