Republic of the Philippines '
20u'City Council
43d Regular Session
SERIES of 2023
PRESENT:
Vice Mayor
C.ouncilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
C,ouncilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
C,ouncilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
J. Melchor B. Quitain Jr.
Luna Maria Dominique S. Acosta
Bai Hundra Cassandra Dominique N. Advincula
Bernard E. Al-ag
Wilberto E. Al-ag
Al Ryan S. Alejandre
Dante L. Apostol Sr.
Conrado C. Baluran
lessica M. Bonguyan
Louie John J. Bonguyan
Pilar C. Braga
Augusto Javier G. Campos III
Jonard C. Dayap
Edgar P. Ibuyan Jr.
Richlyn N. Justol-Baguilod
Diosdado Angelo Junior R. Mahipus
Rodolfo M. Mande
Kristine May John Abdul Mercado
Bonz Andre A. Militar
Myrna G. LDalodo-Ortiz
Alberto T. Ungab
Lorenzo Benjamin D. Villafuerte
Trisha Ann J. Villafuerte
Jesus Joseph P. Zozobrado III
Marissa S. Abella
Nilo M. Abellera lr.
Temujin B. Ocampo
Presiding Officer
- On Domestic Emergenry Leave
OB-Attended the Training Program
for the JICA Grassroots Prcject in
Kitakyushu, Japan
ABSENT:
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
ORDINANCE ilO. 0332.23
SERIES of 2O23
Ail ORDI]TAI{CE CREATIilG THE DAVAO CITY OFFICE FOR
CUTTURE A]ID THE ARTS AS A DIVISIOT UTDER THE CITY
MAYORS OFFICE, APPROPRIATTNG FUNDS THEREOF, AND FOR
OTHER PURPOSES

Ord. No.0332-23
Be it ordained by the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod of Davao Crty, in session
assembled, that:
SECTION 1, ffi.
This Ordinance shall be known as "AN ORDINANCE
CREATING THE DAVAO CITY OFFICE FOR CULTURE AilD THE ARTS'
SECTIOI{ 2, DECTARATIOI{ OF PRII{CIPLES AND POLICIES. Davao Gty is
committed to the promoUon of culture and arts and adheres to the following national
principles and policies:
(a) Article )GV of the Philippine Constitution mandates that the state shall fuster
the preservation, enrichment and dynamic evolution of a Filipino national cutture based
on the principle of unity in diversity in a climate of free artistic and intellectual
expression. It fufther ensures that the arE shall enjoy the patronage of the state and it
shall conserue, promote, and popularize the nation's historical and cultural heritage and
resources as well as artistic creations.
(b) Atticle V, SECTION 14(b) of Republic Act No. 10066, otherwise known as the
National Cultural Heritage Act of 2009, stipulates that local government units, through
their cultural offices, shall maintain an inventory of cultural propefi under its
jurisdiction.
(c) Philippine Development Plan 20L7-2022, which includes the promotion of
Philippine Culture and Values, highligh6 the establishment of an ofifice for culture and
the arts in the local government units, with a mandate to protect and promote locat
cultural heritage and arts.
(d) The Depaflrnent of the Interior and Local Government (DILG) requires all
local government units to comply with the following Essential Areas in Cultural Heritage
Promotion and Conversation: presence of a council or office for the promotion of culture
and atB; budget appropriated for the conseruation and preseruation of cultural
property; and availability of updated cultural property inventory in the local government
unit.
(e) SECTION 3(h) of Republic Act No. 7L60, otherwise known as the Local
Government Code of 1991, provides that local government units shall have a continuing
mechanisrn to enhance local autonomy not only by legislative enabling acts but also by
administrcttve and organizational reforms. SECTION 76 of the same Code further states
that every local government unit shall design and implement its own organizational
structure and staffing pattern taking into consideration its seruice requirements and
financial capability subject to minimum standards and guidelines prescribed by the Civil
Service Commission (CSC).
sEcrroil 3. DEFrNmoIr oF TERMS AilD AcRoilYMs. For easy
reference, the following are the definition of terms and acronyms used in this
Ordinance:
R.A 10066
Republic Act No. 10066, otherwise known as the National Cultural
Heritage Act of 2009
Republic Act No. 7L60, otherwise known as the Local Government
Code of 1991
R.A. 7160

Ord. No.0332-23
Nationa! Commission for Culture and the Arts
United Nations Educational, scientific and culturar organization
The full range of our inherited tradiuons, monuments, objects, and
culture. Most important, it is the range of contemporary activiues,
meanings, and behaviors that we draw from them. Heritage
includes, btlt is much more than preseruing, excavating, dispraying,
or restoring a collection of old things
Culture
The set of distinctive spiritual, material, intellectuar, and emotional
features of society or a social group that encompasses, not only aft
and literature, but lifestyles, ways of living together, value s16tems,
traditions, and beliefr. (UNESCO, 2001:3)
Art
something that is created with imagination and skilr and that is
beautiful or that expresses important ideas or feelings. (Britannica)
NccA has the following classifications of Arts: Architecture and
Allied Afts; Cinema; Dance, Dramatic Arts, Literary Arts, Music, and
Visual Arts
Creative City
A city that identifies creativity as a strategic factor fur sustainable
urban development; placing creativity and cultural industries at ure
heart of its development plans at the local level and cooperaung
activety at the intemational level. (uNEsco Creative cities Network)
SECTIOTI 4. CREATION OF THE DAVAO CITY OFFICE FOR CULTURE AND
THE ARTS. The ffice br Culture and the Arts shall be oeated within the City
Govemment of Davao.
(a) The Office for Culture and the Arts shall be created as a Division under the
ffice of the City Mayor;
(b) The Office for Culture and the Arts shall be headed by a Development
Management Officer IV with Salary Grade 22
(c) A Development Management Officer trI with Salary Grade 18 shall serue as
assistant head of the Office for Culture and the Arts;
(d) The Office shall have the following Sections:
1. Cultural Heritage SECTION
2. Cultural Dissemination SECTION
3. Arts SECTION
4. Cuttural Communities and Traditional Arts SECTION
5. Administrative SECTION
SECTION 5. POWERS, DUTIES AilD FUNCTIONS OF THE OFETCE FOR
CUTTURE AilD THE ARTS AS A DIVISIOil UNDER THE OFFICE OF THE CITY
}IAYOR The Division shall be the primary office dedicated to activating and sustaining
Davao City through culture and arts and realizing its vision to become a "Cleative City.-
Specifically, it will have the fullowing functions:
NCCA
UNESCO
Heritage

Ord. No. 0332-23
(a) Promotes balanced and sustainable development by making sure creativity
and cultural industries are mainstreamed in the City's development plans;
(b) Conserues and promotes the City's historical and cultural heritage;
(c) Preserves and integrates traditional culture and its diverse creative
expressions as a dynamic paft of the City's mainstream culture;
(d) Encourages and facilitates the organization of a network of culture and afts
groups that wtll activety participate in the formulation and implementatton of
plans, programs, projects and activities related to culture and alts in the
city;
(e) Advises the City Mayor on matters related to culture and the afts;
(D Serues as the Secretariat of the Davao City Council br Culture and the Arts;
(g) Serues as the city government's liaison to the National Commission for
Culture and the Arts (NCCA) and other cultural agencies, international,
national, and local;
(h) Administers the Davao City Endowment Fund for Culture and the Arts and
coordinate with the allocation of resources from the city government in
support of the aftists and cultural groups which contribute significantly
to the cultural legacy as means to extend artistic achievement
including the development, protection, preservation and dissemination
of the City's culture and the arts;
(i) Secures funds and generate resources from international and national
sources and donorc to support approved plans, programs, projects, and
activities related to culture and the arts;
0) Performs other functions as may be necessary fur the promotion of Davao
City's culture and the afts, including organizing, planning, and implemenUng
the major festivals and celebrations of the city.
SECTION 6. DUTIES AND FUNCTIONS OF THE SECTIOilS. The duties and
functions of the three Sections under the Division shall be as follovrrs:
(a) Cultural Heritage SECTION
1. Conducts and maintains an inventory of cultural propefi under the
jurisdiction of the City of Davao in coordination with Museo Dabawenyo;
2. Supports, monitors, and systematizes the retrieval and conseryaUon of
artifacB of Davao cutture and history in coordination with Museo
Dabawenyo;
3. Encourages and supports the study, recognition, preservation, and
promotion of local human cultural resources such as weavers, chanters,
dancers, craftspeople and aftisans;

Ord. No. 0332-23
4. SupporB and promotes the establishment and preservation of culhnal and
historical landmarks, monuments, names, and sites in the City;
5. Encourages and supporG the creation and maintenance of museums,
libraries, archives, galleries, and cultural centers by government and private
sectors;
6. Promotes and supports the research and writing of Davao history from the
perspective of the multi-cultural peoples of Davao;
7. Develops and supports programs, projects, and activities that promote
Darao's history and culture;
8. Performs other functions as directed.
(b) Culhrral Dissemination SECTION
1. Ensures the widest dissemination of artistic and cultural products among the
greatest number within Davao City and beyond for their appreciation and
enjoyment;
2. Promotes the creation and development of an intensified arB education
program at all levels of the educational system, public and private, to ensure
meaningful arts integration across the school cuniculum;
3. Encourages and suppofts programs through publication, exhibiuon,
production, performance, staging, and reproduction of original Drvao and
Mindanao creations;
4. Prcvides technical and financial assistance for cultural events and related
activiues such as festivals, competitions, seminars, and others in the City;
5. Promotes the popularization of informatton about arttstic and cuttural
achievements and programs, in coordination with government agencies and
non{ovemment organizations and institutions;
6. Reorients tourism programs to become an instrument for popular education
to prornote Darraot history cuttural heritage, and creatifi;
7. Undeftakes systematic collection of data related to the state of cultura!
conditions in the City to serve as evidence-based inputs to the formulation of
cultura! policies and programs;
8. Creates and suppor6 intemational and national cultural
scholarships, and travel grants and other related programs.
exchange,
(c) ArB SECTION
t. Promotes a culture of crcativity and the exercise of freedom of expression in
the City;
2. Prcmotes the interest and welfare of artists and cultural workers in the City;

Ord. No. 0332-23
'3. Proposes measures and rccommends legislation to protect the intettectml
and aftistic rights and propefties of Davao artists;
4. Engages with and encourages the active involvement of individual artists
and artists'groups in making Davao a "Creative Citf ,'which shall cover, but will
not be limited to, the following areas: visual afts, literary arts, architecture,
dmmatic arB, broadcast arB, musical arB, dance, and fitm.
5. Ensures the broad, inclusive, and equitable access of all local artists to
support, services, and resources from the city government;
6. Develops a recognition program for artistic achievement through awards,
incentiveq and seruices to aftists and culturat workers who contribute
significantly to Davao Cit/s cultural legacy;
7. Develops a local arts program for integration in formal education and br
non-formal settings to nufture future generations of Davao artists;
8. Pefforms other functions as directed.
(d) Cultural Communities and Traditional Afts SECTION
1. Promotes, nuftures and suppolB traditional artists and aftisans in the City
through establishment of schools of living tradition and cultural centerc in
cultural communities;
2. Encourages and supporB cuttural research on the CiVs fotklore, dance,
music, and crafu;
3. Develops training programs for students, teachers, and cultural workerc to
practice and pefform traditional arts from the Cit/s diverse cuttural
communities;
4. Engages with and encourages the active involvement of cultural communities
and tradiUonal artists in developing plans and programs that will include and
mainsfream traditional arts in Davao City's development plan towards making it
a "CreaEve Cityi'
5. Ensures the broad, inclusive, and equitable access of all cultural communities
and traditional artists to support, seruices, and resources ftom the city
government;
6. Documents and helps preserve traditional arts from atl of the Citfs cultural
communities for future generations;
7. Promotes cultural sensitivity among residents of and visitors of Davao City to
ensure that fie rights and welfare of the City's diverse cultural communiUes are
protected and respected;
8. Peforms other functions as directed.
(e) Administrative SECTION
1. Provides assistance to other sections/units on all administrative matters;

Ord. No. 0332-23
2. Assists other sections in the preparation of documents and other official
activiUm conducted by the office;
3. Perftrms others tasks that may be assigned by immediate superiors pursrant
to the objectives of this Ordinance.
SECTION 7. CREATION OF REGULAR POSITIONS IN THE OFFICE OF
CULTURE AND THE ARTS. Pursuant to all issuances of the Civil Seruice C.ommission,
the following regular positions (Plantilla Positions) shall be created:
A. Division Head
Position Title
Salary Grade
Number of Positions
Development Management fficer IV
B. Assistant Division Head
Position Title
Salary Grade
Number of Positions
Development Management Officer III
t
C. Cultural Heritage SECTION
D. Cultural Dissemination SECTION
Position Title
Salary Grade
Number of Positions
Development Management Officer II
Development Management Officer I
hject Evaluation Assistant
I
Position Title
Salary Grade
Number of PosiUons
Development Management Officer II
Development Management Offtcer I
Proffi Evaluation Assistant
I

Ord. No. 0332-23
E. Arts SECTION
F. Cultural Communities and Traditional Arts SECTION
G. Administrative SECTION
Total Number of Plantilla Positions
sEcTroil 8. APPoTNTMEI{T AI{D qUALIFTCATTOI{S OF PLAilTTLLA
FOSffiONS. The Division Head shall be appointed by the City t"tayor, upon
recommendation of the Davao City Culture and Arts Council, which seryes as the City
Mayo/s advisory council on matters related to culture and arts. All other lower positions
of the Division shall be based on the qualifications set by the Civil Seruice Commission
(CSC). Gender balance must be considered in the appointment of the plantilla positions
in the Division.
Pursuant to all updated qualification standards set for ceftain positions by the
Civil Seruice Commission (CSC) and the Departnent of Budget and Management (DBM),
as well as addiUonal qualifications that may be set by the Human Resource and
Management ffice (HRMO) of the City Govemment of Davao, here are the functions
and minimum qualifications of plantilla positions under the Office of Culture and the
AIts:
Position Title
Salary Grade
Number of PosiUons
Development Management Officer II
Development Management Officer I
Project Evaluation Assistant
I
Position Title
Salary Grade
Number of PosiUons
Dwelopment Management fficer II
t5
Development Management Officer I
Project Evaluation Assistant
I
Position Title
Salary Grade
Number of Positions
Administrative Officer IV
Administrative Offi cer II
Administrative Aide IV
Driver II

Ord. No.0332-23
Position Title
EducaUon
Experience
Training
Eligibility
Development
Management
Officer IV SG22
Bachelor's
Degree in the
fields of social
sciences or
humanities
Three (3) years
relevant
experience in
program
management
related to
culture and arts
Sixteen (16)
hours of
rehvant
training related
to culture and
arts
Career Seruice
Professional
Second Level
Eligibility
Development
Management
fficer IU SG18
Bachelo/s
Degree in the
fields of social
sciences or
humanities
Two (2) years
relevant
experience in
program
management
related to
culture and arts
Eight (8) hours
of relevant
training related
to culture and
afts
Career Service
Professional
Second Level
Eligibility
Development
Management
fficer II SG-15
Bachelo/s
Degree in the
fields of social
sciences or
humanities
Two (2) years
relevant
experience in
program
management
Four (4) hours
of relevant
training related
to culture and
arts
Career Service
Professional
Second Level
Eligibility
Development
Management
Officer I SG-11
Bachelo/s
Degree in the
fields of social
sciences or
humanities
None required
None required
C-areer Seruie
SubProfessional
First Level
Elisibilfi
Project
Evaluation
Assistant SG-8
Completed two
(2) years of
college
one 01 year
relevant
experience
four (4) hours
of relevant
training related
to culture and
arts
Career Selice
SubProfessional
First Level
Eligibility
Administrative
fficer IV SG15
Bachelor's
Degree relevant
to the job
one (1) year
relevant
experience in
DRR}4
four (4) hours
of relevant
training related
to DRRI4
Career Service
Professional
Second Level
Eligibility
Adminisffative
fficer II SG-l1
Bachelort
Degree relevant
to the job
None required
None required
Career Service
SubProftssional
Firct Level
Eligibility
AdministraUve
Aide IV SG-4
Completed two
(2) years of
college
None required
None required
Career Seruice
SubProfessional
First Level
Eligibility

Ord. No. 0332-23
SECTION 9. DIXEES AND.EUilCTIOilS OF REGULAR POSffiONS. The
regular positions in the Office of Culture and th
ing
functions:
Driver II SG-4
Elementary
school graduate
None required
None required
Professional
Drive/s Ucense
(MC 10, s. 2013
- Cat. IV)
Position Title
Functions
Division Head (DMO IV)
o Manages and supervises the office of culture and the Arts;
. Supervises all approved programs and projects to be
implemented within tJre office's three focus areas, inctuding
coordinating all efforts and initiatives related to cutture and
afts with all sectors, public and private;
o Creates a single channel (convergence) for alt programs,
seruices, and activities related to culture and arts in Davao
City;
. Represents the City Mayor in the Davao Cfi Culture and
Arts Council
. serves as the city Mayor's link to all sectors relating to their
concerns on culture and afts, and reports these for the cty
Mayo/s appropriate action;
. Performs other functions as may be assigned by the City
Mayor.
Assistant Division Head
(DMO rrr)
. Assists in managing and superuising the office for culture
and the Arts;
r Assists in the planning and implementation of programs,
projects, and activiUes of the office
o Assists in developing office policies and procedures and in
supervising the administrative functions of the office
o Assists in coordinating with other government agencies,
private sector paftners, and other sectoral groups
o Performs other task that may be assigned by the Division
Head purcuant to the objectives of this Ordinance
SECTION Head (DMO U)
o Formulates plans, programs, and activities related to the
functions under his/her assigned SECTION as provided in the
Ordinance;
. Implements approved programs, prcjects, and activiUes and
monitors their progress;
. Evaluates development of implemented plans and programs
and repolG it to the head of office
. collaborates with other sections and units of the office as
well as with other offies, agencies, and groups for more
efficient and effective implementation of plans and
programs
. Perfrrms other related functions as may be directed by
immediate superiors

Ord. No. 0332-23
Development Management
fficer I
o Provides assistance to the SECTION Head in the preparation
and implementation of plans, programs, and activities
o Documents activities of the SECTION and assists in preparing
repofts
o Performs oUrer related functions as may be directed by
immediate superiors
Project Development
Assistant
. Provides support in implementing approved programs,
projects, and activities
. Conducts assessment and monitoring of projects and
activiUes
. Pefforms other related functions as may be directed by
immediate superiors
AdministraUve SECTION
Head (Administrative
Officer IV)
. Supervises the administrative functions of the ofifice relative
to records management, personnel administration, supply
and propefty utilization, budgeting, janitorial seruices,
including maintenance and repair;
o Undertakes dissemination of latest issuances relative to the
functions of the office;
. Prepares necessary documents such as memorandums,
emails, and reports needed by the head of office;
. Organizes and schedules appoinhrents and meetings as
approved by the head of office;
. Plans meetings and takes detailed minutes
. Performs other related functions that may be assigned by
the head of office
Administrative fficer II
. Provides assistance to the Administrative SECTION Head
. Documents activities of the SECTION and assisE in preparing
communications and reporB
. Performs other related functions as may be directed by
immediate superiors
Administrative Aide IV
. Assists in performing frontline services to clients, receiving,
recording, releasing and sorting documents and files;
. Helps manage and maintain the office's data and filing
system
. Peforms other related functions as may be directed by
immediate superiors
Driver II
o Safely and efficiently transport personnel, office supplies
and equipment using the office vehicle;
. Undertakes proper maintenance and care of the vehicles to
asceftain that said vehicles are in good running condition
. Prepares reports on fud and oil consumption as well as the
distance travelled for submission to the City Accountanfs
Office and the City General Services ffice;
. Accomplishes trip tickets by using Daily Authorized Trips
Summary to ensure that the trips are recorded and official;
. Performs other related functions as may be directed by
immediate superiorc

Ord. No.0332-23
SECTIOI{ 10. HUMAN RESOURCE COMPTEMENT. The City Mayor shall be
allowed to employ emergency or seasonat perconnel or workers needed by the office
through Job Orders or Contract of Seruices based on the availability of budgbt pursuant
to SECTION 77 of Republic Act No. 7t60, otherwise known as the Local Govemment Code
of 1991 and subject to government rules and regutations on budgeting, accounting, and
audiUng.
SECTIOT{ 11. CREATIOil OF THE DAVAO CITY CULTURE A1{O IRTS
COUI{CII. In accordance with the issuance of revised rrlernorandum Crrcrdar rrlo.
2002-81 by the Department of the Interior and Local Governmen! enutled "Creation of
the Local Culture and Afts Council" and in consonance with City Ordinance No. 0194-04,
providing br, among others, the Creation of the Davao City Culture and AlG Council.
The Ctty Mayor shall constitute a multi-sectoral and multi{isciplinal Cutture and AIts
Council that shall adequately represent all classifications of the arts as well as the city,s
rnajor cultural communiUes. The members of the council will serve coterminously with
the City Mayor.
SECTIOil 12, COMFOSTTION OF THE DAVAO CITY CULTURE AND ARTS
COUNCIL. The composition of the Davao City Culture and Arts Council as mandated by
CiW Ordinance No. 09L4-04 are as follows:
Chairperson :
Memberc :
City Mayor or his duly appointed RepresentaUve
Chairperson, SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod Committee on
EducaUon, Science and Technology, Arts and Culture
Chairperson, SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod Committee on
Tourism and Beautification
Head, Museo Dabawenyo
City Planning and Development Officer
City InformaUon Officer
City Budget fficer
City Tourism fficer
Representative, Depafirnent of Education (DepEd Division of
Davao City)
RepresentaUve, Commission on Higher EducaUon-)G (CHED)
RepresenbWe, Technical Education and Skills Development
Authority )c CTESDA)
Representative, Philippine Information Agency-)G (pIA)
Representative, Tourism Council of Davao City
Representative, Davao Historical Society
Representative, Local Museums
Representative, Local Aftists Groups
Representative, Business Sector or Chamber of Commerce
Representative, Professional Sector
RepresentaUve, 4sa6.r.
Represenffitve, Youth Sector
Indigenous Peoples Mandatory Representative (IpMR) to the
Representative, National Commission for Culture and the
Arts (NCC,A)

Ord. No.0332-23
To be more inclusive and comprehensive, the following disciplines and fields shall
be represented in the council:
(a) Archives
(h) Architecture and Allied Arts
(b) Art Galleries
(i) Film
(c) Historical Research
fi) Dance
(d) Ubraries and Information Services. (k) Theater Arts
(e) Museums
(l) Literary Arts
(f) Cultural Education
(m) Visual Arts
(g) Cultural Communities
(n) Music
The Davao Ctty ffice for Culture and the Arts shall serue as the Secretariat of
the Council.
SECTION 13. CREAIIOil OF BARANGAY CULTURE AND ARTS COUilCIL.
To ensure the broadest participation possible and to promote Barangay empowerment
in culture and arts development, the Barangay Culture and Arts Council (BCAC) in all
barangays in Davao City shall be created.
The BCAC shall be composed of govemment and private sector representatives
with 40 perent coming from the government and 60 percent from the private sector.
The membership to the council shall be chosen collectively through a resolution
of the Barangay Council and appointed by the Barangay Chair. A Barangay Committee
on Culture and Afts shall likewise be created and an SK Chairperson to head it shall be
de$gnated by the Barangay Council.
The officers shall be elected by and among the members of the Council and they
will be as follows:
Chair
Co-Chair
Secretary
Treasurer
Members
Barangay Chair
SK Chairperson, Chair for Culture and the ArB
To be elected
To be elected
Representative from the Afts Community
RepresentaUve from the Cultural Workers Community
Representative from the Academe
Representative from the Business Sector
RepresentaWe from Indigenous Community
Other Representatives as decided by the Barangay Council
The Chair shall sit in such capacity for the duration of his/her term as Barangay
Chair and the rest of the memberc shall hold office co-terminus with the tenure of the
Chair.
The main functions of the BCAC shall be as follows:
(a) Identify historical and cultural heritage sites, landmarks, monuments, and
other cultural properties within the barangay;
(b) Undertake steps to promote and preserve the identified cultural heritage
sites;

Ord. No. A332-23
(c) Create a directory of aftists, aftisans, and cuJtural workers residing in their
barangay;
(d) Develop plans and programs that will promote culture and the afts in their
barangay;
(e) Implement the Davao city culture and Arts Progrcm approved by the City
Mayor in their barangay.
SECTION 14. THE CITY ENDOWMENT FUND FOR CULTURE A]TD THE
ARTS. A City Endowment Fund for Culture and the Arb (the Fund) is hereby
established o<clusively fur Davao culture and afts programs, projects, and activities alt
over the city.
The private poftion of the fund shall be raised from donations and other
conveyances including funds, materialg property, and seruices by gratuitous tide.
ContribuUon to the fund shall be deductible br tax purposes.
No poftion of the Fund shall be used for administrative and operational expenses
of the ffice br Culture and the Ats. All funds appropriated and raised under the
Endowment Fund must go to programs, projects, activities, and grants to artists and
cultural workers.
SECTIOI{ 15. APPROPRIATIOil. The City shall appropriate Ten Million Pesos
(Php10,000,000.00) for the first-year operation of the Davao City Office fur Culture and
the Arts and subsequent annual budget subject to the accounting rules and regulations.
SECTION 16. REPEALING CLAUSE. All other laws, decrees, order, issuances,
rules and regulations which are inconsistent with the provisions of this Ordinance are
hereby repealed, amended or modified accordingly.
SECTIOil 17. SEPARABILITY CIAUSE. If, for any reason, any part of the
provision of this Ordinance shall be held to be unconstitntionat or invalid, other parts or
provisions thereof which are not affected shall continue to be in full furce and effect.
SECTION 18.
approval.
EFFECTMTY. This Ordinance shall take effect upon iB
EI{ACTED, on the 21* day of November 2023, by a unanimous vote of all the
Members of the Sanggunian, there being a quorum.
CERTIFIED CORRECT:
,fr!Mn'.rlh'-
Secretary to the Sangguniar{g Panlungsod
(City Government Departrnent Head lI) /

I
i.r
a'
I
ord. trto.0332-23
t
I.
AI'IETED:
ATTESiTED:
B. QUTTATI| J&
Vrce Mayor
ffi
arfiry
APPROVED: DEC 2g&!', mi23
Z. DI'TERTE
c*ywff//
ATTY.
H. LAYOG
Acting
AI{ ORDINANCE CREATING THE DAVAO CXTY OFFICT FOR CULTURE AND THE ARTS AS
A DII/XS[o?+ t llDER THE CIW H*YORS OFFI€I, APPROPREITI]|G R ]n]S THEREOF,
AIID FOR OTTIER ruRPO6ES
il