rd
I},tr
I2)
D lva
City 0f Davao
20th City Council
25h Regular Session
SERIES of 2023
PRESENT:
Vice Mayor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
ABSENT:
J. Melchor B. Quitain Jr.
Marissa S. Abella
Nilo M. Abellera Jr.
Luna Maria Dominique S. Acosta
Bai Hundra Gssandra Dominique N. Advincula
Al Ryan S. Alejandre
Dante L. Apostol Sr.
Conrado C. Baluran
Jessica M. Bonguyan
Louie John J. Bonguyan
Pilar C. Braga
Augusto lavier G. Campos III
Jonard C. Dayap
Edgar P. Ibuyan Jr.
Edgar R. Ibuyan Sr.
Richlyn N. Justol-Baguilod
Diosdado Angelo Junior R. Mahipus
Rodolfo M. Mande
Jaffar U. Marohomsalic
Bonz Andre A. Militar
Temujin B. Ocampo
Myrna G. L'Dalodo-Ortiz
Albefto T. Ungab
Lorenzo Benjamin D. Villafuefte
Trisha Ann J. Villafuefte
Jesus Joseph P. Zozobrado III
Bernard E. Al-ag
Wilbefto E. Al-ag
- Presiding Officer
-On Vacation Leave
Councilor
Councilor
ORDINANCE NO. 0246-23
SERIES of 2023
AN ORDINANCE ESTABTISHING THE INTEGRATED PREEMPTIVE AND
EMERGENCY EVACUATION SYSTEM IN CASE OF EMERGENCIES
CAUSED BY NATURAL OR MAN-MADE HAZARDS OR DISASTERS AND
PROVIDING PENALTIES TH EREFOR
E

Ord. No. 0246-23
Be it ordained by the Honorable SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod of Davao City, in session
assembled, that:
SECTION 1. TITLE - This Ordinance shall be referred to as *THE PREEMPTIVE
ATID EMERGENCY EVACUATIOTV ORDITVATYCE OF DAYAO CITT"
SECTION 2.
Under SECTION 16, General Welfare
Clause of the Loca! Government Code, Local Government Units are authorized to exercise
the powers necessary, appropriate, or incidental to its efficient and effective governance
and those which are essential to the promotion of the general welfare.
Furthermore, under SECTION 2 of R.A. No. 10121, otherwise known as the Philippine
Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Act of 2010, the State aims to recognize the
local risk patterns across the country, strengthen the capacity of LGUs for disaster risk
reduction and management through decentralized powers, responsibilities, and resources
at the regiona! and local levels, and strengthen the capacities of LGUs and communities
in mitigating and preparing for, responding to, and recovering from the impact of
disasters.
Therefore, it is the declared policy of the City Government of Davao to protect the
lives and propefties of its residents at all times, and, whenever possible, mitigate the
effects of any man-made and natural disasters within its locality.
SECTION 3. DEFINITION OF TERMS - As used in this Ordinance, the following
terms are hereby defined:
(a) Accredited Community Disaster Volunteerc (ACDV) - are individuals or
organized volunteers who possess the requisite qualifications, as stipulated in
the guidelines currently utilized by CDRRMO, and whose names were submitted
as officially included in the City Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Counci!
(CDRRMC), List of Community Disaster Volunteers, and/or the National Roster of
ACDVs maintained by the Office of Civil Defense (OCD) and have the following
roles:
Provide voluntary seruice to Local Government Units and communities for
DRRM-related activities.
ii. Ensure that services rendered are done in a professional manner and does
not compromise the safety of the volunteers and communities they are
assisting.
(b) Community Volunteer Responderc (CVR) - a group of responders in the
community that pedorm response activities.
(c) Disaster - a serious disruption of the functioning of a community or a society
involving widespread human, material, economic or environmental losses and
impacts, which exceeds the ability of the affected community or society to cope
using its own resources. For purposes of this Ordinance, disaster shall include
both natural calamities and man-made disasters.
(d) Disaster Prevention - the outright avoidance of adverse impacts of hazards
and other related disasters.

Page 3 of L2
Ord. No. 0246-23
(e) Disaster Victims - persons or group of persons who have been adversely
affected by a natural or human-induced hazard who have to leave their habitual
places of residence due to existing or impending threats, damaged shelter units,
with casualty among immediate family members or those who remained in their
habitual places of origin when still habitable but whose main source of income
or livelihood had been damaged and are experiencing hopelessness and difficulty
in coping or responding to the onslaught of the hazardous events on their own
resources.
(f) Early Warning System (EWS) - refers to the set of capacities needed to
generate and disseminate timely and meaningful warning information to enable
individuals, communities, and organizations threatened by a hazard to prepare
and act appropriately and insufficient time to reduce the possibility of harm or
loss.
(g) Emergency an unforeseen or sudden occurrence, especially danger,
demanding an immediate action.
(h) Emergency Evacuation means an evacuation ordered by competent
authoriW when an unforeseen disaster has suddenly occurred which requires
immediate evacuation of the affected area/s.
(i) Evacuation - means an operation whereby all or part of a particular population
is temporarily relocated, whether individually or in an organized manner, from
an area in which a disaster or emergenry has been declared and which is
considered dangerous to the health and safety of the general public.
g) Evacuation Area, Evacuation Center, or Evacuation Place - a place where
the Disaster Victims, Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) and Vulnerable and
Marginalized Groups are brought before, during,and after calamities or disasters
such as, but not limited to, typhoons, floods, landslides, eafthquakes or fire, for
care, safety and protection.
(k) Hazard - a dangerous phenomenon, substance, human activity, or condition
that may cause loss of life, injury or other health impacts, propefi damage, loss
of livelihood and services, social and economic disruption, or environmental
damage.
(l) Imminent Danger - means any condition in any place such that a danger exists
which could reasonably be expected to cause death or serious physical harm
immediately upon or before the occurrence of any human-induced or natural
disasters.
(m) Indigenous Early Warning System (IEWS) - a community's traditional way
of giving Early Warning, such as batingaw and observing animal behavior,
celestial bodies, etc., in determining possible weather disturbances. Whatever
works for the barangay is acceptable as long as the meaning and the
recommended action are properly disseminated to the community and constantly
practiced through the conduct of drills and other skills enhancement exercises.
(n) Internally Displaced Percon (IDP) or Percons Displaced by the Disaster
(PDP) - refers to persons or groups of persons who have been forced or obliged
to flee or to leave their homes or places of habitual residence, in pafticular as a
result of or in order to avoid the effects of natural or human-induced disasters,
and who have not crossed an internationally recognized State border.

Page 4 of L2
Ord. No. 0246-23
(b) Preemptive Evacuation - means an evacuation ordered as a resoft when a
disaster has been declared and danger or loss of life is imminent, and conditions
exist that may critically imperi! or endanger the lives of those in a defined area.
(p) Public Aleft and Warning System (PAWS) - a system used to give warning
to the public, such as a Siren, to alert the public of impending disaster
occurrence. PAWS is usually science-based technology and mostly, those that
are state-of-the-art devices that have wider coverage in terms of monitoring and
alerting, which benefits responsiveness to emergency management and public
safety officials, and builds public trust, equity and confidence.
(q) Recognized Volunteer Groups (RVG) - are volunteer groups not included
under the definition of ACDVs but are recognized by the City Government of
Davao or LDRRMC.
(r) Reconstruction - the medium- and long-term rebuilding and sustainable
restoration of resilient critical infrastructures, services, housing, facilities and
livelihoods required for the ful! functioning of a community or a society affected
by a disaster, aligning with the principles of sustainable development and "build
back better," to avoid or reduce future disaster risk.
(s) Recovery - the restoring or improving of livelihoods and health, as well as
economic, physical, social, cultural and environmental assets, systems and
activities, of a disaster-affected community or society, aligning with the principles
of sustainable development and "build back betteri' to avoid or reduce future
disaster risk.
(t) Rehabilitation - the restoration of basic seruices and facilities for the
functioning of a community or a society affected by a disaster.
(u) Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) - a standard operating procedure is
a set of step-by-step instructions compiled by an organization to help workers
carry out routine operations. SOPs aim to achieve efficiency, quality output, and
uniformity of peformance while reducing miscommunication and failure to
comply with the organization's regulations.
(v) Vulnerable Groups - include individuals or groups of people that face higher
exposure to disaster risk and povefi including, but not limited to, women,
especially pregnant and lactating mothers, children and youth, especially
orphans and unaccompanied children, elderly, differently-abled people, and
people with chronic illnesses.
SECTION 4.
(PAWS) AND ITS STANDARD OPERATING PROCEDURES (SOP) - The City
Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Office (CDRRMO) and the Barangay Disaster
Risk Reduction Management Committee (BDRRMC) are mandated to establish PAWS and
its SOP in order to provide early warning to communities at risk.
CDRRMO and BDRRMC should conduct regular checking of the PAWS that are
already established. The following are the PAWS employed by the City, but shall not be
limited to the following:
(a) Electronic Siren;
(b) Manual Bell;

Page 5 of t2
Ord. No. 0246-23
(c) Manual Water Level Marker - establish within the different river system as
another reference for the conduct of preemptive evacuation. The following colors
and their corresponding meaning have been adopted from the Philippine
Atmospheric Geophysical and Astronomical Services Administration (PAGASA)
warning signals:
i. Green - Safe Level
ii. Yellow- Aleft Level
iii. Orange - Warning Level
iv. Red - Critical Level
(d)Alet through SMS - Mobile numbers used to communicate and inform all
residents in imminent danger;
(e) Recorida - to reinforce the alarm signals sounded by the city; and
(0 IEWS - in respect to the cultural norms and practices of the communities, several
indigenous ways of early warning systems are being accepted and recognized to
aleft communities of an impending disaster.
SECTION 5.
EVACUATION - The following protocols shall be obserued in the implementation of
preemptive evacuation :
(a) Upon the assessment and monitoring relative to imminent danger caused by
weather disturbance and other hazards, the CDRRMO-Operation Center through
the Head of Office shal! immediately inform the City Mayor and seek clearance
for the implementation of evacuation procedures and protocols.
On the basis of such recommendation, the City Mayor shall immediately
declare the implementation and enforcement of preemptive evacuation, which
shall be guided by the following factors:
i. Conditions for Evacuation;
ii. Chain of Command;
iii. Evacuation Procedures;
iv. Emergency Standards; and
v. Early Warning System.
(b)The Preemptive Evacuation shall be enforced in three different levels, as follows:
i. Level 1 refers to a voluntary evacuation during Green Warning Signal;
ii. Level 2 refers to the evacuation of vulnerable sectors, within four (4)
hours, enforced during Yellow Warning Signal; and
iii. Level 3 refers to complete evacuation, within four (4) hours, enforced
during Orange and Red Warning Signal. Here, inhabitants or would-be
disaster victims are mandated to evacuate in view of an imminent
danger against their life. In cases where the inhabitants or would-be
disaster victims refuse or resist to vacate, he or she may be forcibly
taken if the situation warrants as a means of ensuring his or her safety.
(c) If anyone within the affected area does not adhere to the order of evacuation
during a Level 2 or Level 3 pre-emptive evacuation, the person may be
compulsorily taken, if the situation warrants as a means of ensuring his or her
safety;
a

Page 6 of t2
Ord. No. 0246-23
(d) CDRRMO shall mobilize all search and rescue teams not limited to BDRRIvICS,
RVGs, ACDVS, and CVRS in accordance with the Clustering of Emergency
Resources.
SECTIOil 6. CONSIDERATION IN THE IMPLEMENTATION OF EMERGENCY
EVACUATIOI{ - These protocols shall be obserued in the implementation of emergency
evacuations:
(a) Emergency Evacuation is a full evacuation of all residents and occupants within
the hazard or disaster area and will be resofted to in cases where the forecasted
impact of the hazard or disaster is within less than two (2) hours or in any
incidents that are about to occur, are already occurring, or have already
occurred, such as in the case of fire, eafthquake, terrorist attack or criminal
activity within an area;
(b) Emergency Evacuation shall be carried out in a manner that is humane,
respectful of the dignity of a person, not using disproportionate force, without
discrimination and with conscious attention to the needs of vulnerable sectors,
prioritizing children, pregnant women, the elderly, Persons With Disabilities
(PWDs) and those with chronic illnesses;
(c) Personnel and volunteers carrying out the emergency evacuation shall make sure
that al! measures are taken to inform the evacuees, in a manner and language
that they can understand, of the need for a hasty and orderly evacuation, and
the lack of other alternatives for their evacuation.
(d) If anyone within the affected area does not adhere to the order of emergency
evacuation or is found within the danger or target area beyond the above
mentioned time frame, the person may be compulsorily taken, if the situation
warrants, as a means of ensuring his or her safety;
SECTION 7.
- It shall be incumbent upon the
BDRRMCs to prepare an Evacuation Plan in their respective localities or areas of
jurisdiction prior to a hazard or disaster and identiff a Permanent Evacuation Center and
possible Alternativefl-emporary Evacuation Centers to be utilized in case of emergencies
or disasters.
BDRRMCS shall post copies of the Evacuation Plan in conspicuous places within
their respective localities or areas of jurisdiction and conduct annual drills.
All emergency measures adopted shall be a coordinative and collaborative effoft
between the City Government and the assisting agencies.
The Local Government Unit (LGU) shall have the authority to negotiate with
owners of buildings/facilities with strong/safe structures to be made as temporary
evacuation centers, prior to, during and after the occurrence of disasters.
SECTION 8. ESTABLISHMEilT OF CITY-WIDE EVACUATION SITES . In
case of disasters or hazards, whether forecasted or unforeseen, which affect the entire
City, or a majority of its territory, there shall be designated evacuation sites within the
City in areas not affected by the disaster, and areas outside of the City of Davao when
majority of the city area is affected, in coordination with other LGUs, as determined by
the CDRRMC. These areas will be confinned by the City Government of Davao, through
the appropriate act, agreement, order, resolution, or ordinance, as warranted by law.
i

Page 7 of t2
Ord. No. 0246-23
SECTION 9. ESTABLISHMENT OF EVACUATION SITES AT THE
COMMUNITY TEVEL -There shall be established evacuation sites, both Permanent and
Alternative, to be utilized by the affected area/s during hazards or disasters:
(a) Permanent Evacuation Sites - There shall be an established permanent evacuation
site per barangay as evaluated and designated by the CDRRMO in coordination with
the BDRRMC, to serue as shelter for people in times of calamities and emergencies.
The BDRRMC shal! conduct regular checking and inspection of the said evacuation
sites.
(b) Alternative Evacuation Sites. - In anticipation of permanent evacuation sites, as
designated under SECTION 9(a), being unable, totally or paftially, to accommodate
Disaster Victims, IDPs, PDPs, and Vulnerable Groups due to foftuitous events or
disasters, the BDRRMC shall designate alternative evacuation sites.
(i) Prior to the designation of alternative evacuation sites, the same must first
be evaluated and approved by the CDRRMO. Upon CDRRMO's approval, the
BDRRMC shall release a resolution to officially designate the areas or
locations as alternative evacuation sites. The BDRRMC shall also conduct
regular checking and inspection of the said alternative evacuation sites.
(ii) In case of private establishments and public schools, the BDRRMC shall
have the authority to contract with the owners of said private
establishments or principals of said public schools, as the case may be, in
order to accommodate IPs, and Vulnerable Groups: Provided, That a
Memorandum of Agreement (MOA) shal! be entered into by and between
the BDRRMC and the owner of the private establishment or the principal of
the public school, as the case may be.
(c) By order of preference, the following may be utilized as evacuation sites:
(1) Public gymnasiums, auditoriums and other open spaces situated within the
Barangay;
(2) Public chapels situated within the Barangay;
(3) Public schools, child development centers or other places of worship
within the Barangay;
(4) Private establishments within the Barangay; and
(5) Permanent or Alternative Evacuation Sites of neighboring Barangays.
(d) In all evacuation sites, there must be an established option for transitional shelters,
prioritizing vulnerable groups. New transitional shelters shall be designed with the
following considerations: gender-specific emergency latrines, bathing cubicles, and
hand washing facilities specifically designed for children. It shall provide mother and
child-friendly spaces where children can take paft in child activities. It shall also have
provisions for materna! and newborn and infant care and rooms to protect, feed,
provide personal care, and ensure the right to privacy. Existing transitional shelters
shall be modified to the eltent possible to comply with the foregoing considerations.
(e) The City Health Office (CHO) shall ensure that all disaster victims and IDPs are
provided with proper and necessary medical and psychological assistance. CHO shall
also enhance and implement policies and programs to be enforced during pre-emptive
and emergency evacuation in order to guide and protect humanitarian aid workers,
communities, health professionals, government aid agencies, and donors.
(D The CSWDO shall create and enforce evacuation policies within the evacuation
camp and its vicinity, with the assistance of the DCPO and other law enforcement
agencies.

Page 8 of L2
Ord. No. 0246-23
(g)The CSWDO and DCPO with the assistance of other law enforcement agencies, and
local councils against trafficking and violence against women and their children, in
accordance with existing laws, shall immediately heighten comprehensive measures
and monitoring to prevent human trafficking, child labor, and prostitution, including
domestic and sexual violence, in the affected areas.
SECTION 10. RETURN, REHABILITATION, AND RECONSTRUCTION
(RRR) - The CDRRMO, together with the BDRRMC, and other concerned agencies, shall
implement the fol lowi n g post-d isaster/post-emergency g u idel i nes :
(a) Return - Provided that the affected area is not or has not been declared a "No Build
Zone," "High Risk Arear" "Danger Zone," or "Hazard Prone Area," after the disaster
or hazard, a notice shal! be issued by the City Mayor when the disaster or hazard
has already subsided, that the affected areas are declared safe for habitation and
for the IDPs to return to the said areas.
(i) The Incident Commander during a hazard or disaster shall monitor, assess
and report to the City Mayor on whether the affected area is considered
"Safer" "No Build Zone," "High Risk Area," "Danger Zone," or "Hazard Prone
Area."
(ii) In case the affected area is or has been declared a "No Build Zone," "High
Risk Arear" "Danger Zone," or "Hazard Prone Area," no person may return to
the area without proper authorization from the Incident Commander or City
Mayor, upon the recommendation of concerned agencies.
(iii) No person may continue to reside or occupy any poftion of land which has
been declared by the City Government of Davao, upon recommendation of
concerned agencies, as a "No Build Zoner" "High Risk Arear" "Danger Zone,"
or "Hazard Prone Area". Any occupant in such an area may be removed by
the City Government of Davao, following proper procedures.
(iv) No person, other than those authorized by the Incident Commander or the
City Mayor, may return to the disaster or hazard area prior the issuance of an
official Notice to Return. The DCPO, in coordination with the BDRRMC, and
other concerned agencies shall ensure that the affected area within the
respective territorial jurisdiction of the barangay shall be cordoned off or shall
be made inaccessible to persons other than those who are authorized by the
Incident Commander or City Mayor. They shal! also ensure that no
unauthorized person enters the disaster or hazard area without the Notice to
Return.
(v) The BDRRMC, in coordination with the DCPO, and other law enforcement
agencies, shal! ensure the orderly return of the victims or IDPs to their
residences within the affected areas only after the Notice to Return has been
issued.
(b) Rehabilitation - The CPDO and CEO, in coordination with other concerned
agencies, shall strengthen their rehabilitation plans and processes and focus on
pre-disaster activities to prevent or mitigate the occurrence of future disasters,
whether natural or man-made, as well as post-disaster activities. The CDRRMO, in
coordination with the BDRRMC, shall assist the residents of areas affected by a
natural or man-made disaster, in conducting rehabilitation activities; and

Ord. No. 4246-23
(c) Reconstruction - The CPDO and CEO, in coordination with other concerned
agencies, shall promote the cooperation of diverse institutions, government
agencies, and related stakeholders at all levels, including affected communities
and businesses, in view of the complex and costly nature of post-disaster
reconstruction. In this regard, the principle of "Build Back Better" shall be
incorporated, where post-disaster reconstruction shall not only be restoration to
its pre-disaster condition, but incorporate a higher level of resiliency standards, as
wel! as climate change and mitigation measures in all post-disaster recovery
interuentions.
SECTION 11. PERSONS IN AUTHORITY IN CASE OF EVACUATIONS - The
following shall be authorized to initiate or assist a preemptive or emergency evacuation
in a pafticular area; Provided, they properly identiff themselves to the affected persons
and explain the reason for the evacuation:
(a) CiW Officials;
(b) Barangay Officials; and
(c) Law Enforcement Officers as Agents of Persons in Authority.
Persons in Authority in case of preemptive and emergency evacuations shall have
the presumption of regularity in the peformance of their official duties, and shall not be
held responsible for any damage inflicted upon any person or propefi during the conduct
of such duties, that aids to the effective and unhampered administration of government
functions, as a state of necessity and in view of avoiding a greater evil or injury, unless
such damage was inflicted in a willful or malicious manner.
SECTION 12. PROHIBITED ACTS - Any person or group of people who
commits any of the following prohibited acts shall be held liable and be subjected to the
penalties as prescribed in SECTION 13 of this Ordinance:
(a) Conducting relief operation without prior coordination with the operation center
managed by the CSWDO, with the assistance of the Barangay Council, thereby
causing havoc and commotion in the affected areas;
(b)Accessing or returning to the declared hazard site despite an outstanding order
by competent authorities still being an off-limit area to any human activity,
except government authorities doing assessment or evaluation and the like;
(c) Preventing the entry of government-owned equipment units, tools and
accessories, including key personne! to disaster-stricken areas by any individua!;
(d) Dereliction of duties or refusal of key government employees to respond and act
during times of calamities;
(e) Divefting the use of government equipment, tools, and resources to other uses
other than their intended usage;
(f) Maliciously damaging or destroying fences, barrier or any enclosure of the
disaster affected areas which are purposely mounted for public security;
(g) Willfully and forcefully causing delay in the conduct of rescue operations,
resisting or refusing to be evacuated despite imminent danger and or the
declaration of pre-emptive or emergencf evacuation;

Page 10 of L2
Ord. No. 0246-23
(h)Tampering, damaging or stealing hazard monitoring and early warning equipment
and other related equipment and paraphernalia;
(i) Threatening, harassing, abusing or harming any person in authority or its agents,
camp managers and other personnel in evacuation camps and its vicinity
implementing the evacuation procedures;
fi) Spreading false information regarding the occurrence of any emergency resulting
in panic and confusion in the community;
(k) Maliciously causing delay in the conduct of rescue operations by obstructing the
streets, sidewalks, or general vicinity where the disaster occurred;
(l) Maliciously damaging or destroying the buildings, fixtures, fences, barrier or any
enclosure, and other equipment found and used in disaster affected areas and
evacuation areas;
(m) Deliberate failure or refusal to follow the rules and policies established in
evacuation camps and its vicinity;
(n) Continuing to reside or occupy a poftion of land identified as a "No Build Zone,"
"High Risk Arear""Danger Zone," or "Hazard Prone Arear" despite due process and
notice from the City of Davao.
SECTION 13. PENALTY CLAUSE - Any person, natural or juridical, if found to
have not complied with any provisions of this Ordinance, shall be subjected to the
following penalties:
(a) A fine of One Thousand Pesos (P1,000) for committing the act under subsection
(a) of SECTION 12;
(b) A fine of Three Thousand Pesos (P3,000) for committing the acts under
subsections (b), (c), (d), (e), and (0 of SECTION 12;
(c) A fine of Five Thousand Pesos (P5,000) and/or imprisonment not exceeding one
(1) month at the discretion of the court for committing the acts under subsections
(g), (h), (i), (i), (k), (l), (m) and (n) of SECTION 12.
In case of juridical persons, the President, the General Manager, orthe individual
entrusted with the administration thereof at the time of the commission of the violation
shall be held responsible or liable thereto.
SECTION 14. NO-CONTEST PROVISION - Any person cited for violation of
this Ordinance who does not wish to contest the same and is willing to pay voluntarily
within three (3) days the fine imposed under this Ordinance prior to the filing of a
complaint before the Office of the City Prosecutor shall be allowed to do so, and shall pay
the corresponding administrative fine as cited in SECTION 11 at the Office of the City
Treasurer. Availment of the no<ontest provision shall exempt a percon from criminal
!iability under this Ordinance.
The City Legal Office and the City Treasurer's Office shall provide for the procedure
for the availment of the "No-Contest Provision" and establish a case inventory and
recording system of all violations of this Ordinance.
All proceeds from the payment of the herein imposed fine shall be appointed as
follows:

Page 11 of L2
Ord. No. A246-23
1. Sixty percent (600/o) of the amount collected per apprehension shal! accrue to
the apprehending barangay; and
2. Forty percent (40o/o) shall accrue to the General Fund of the City.
The share of the barangay shall be remitted directly to the barangay, without need
of any fufther action, on a monthly basis within ten (10) days of the following month.
SECTION 15. PLANNING, TRAINING AND ORIENTATION ON DISASTER
RISK REDUCTION AilD MANAGEMENT - The Council's approved training providers
must plan and carry out trainings and orientations on disaster risk reduction and
management in the community as well as planning, preparing, preventing, and mitigating
against natural and man-made hazards, vulnerabilities, and climate change risk. As
required by Republic Act No. 10121, planning, training, drills and simulation exercises
must be carried out at least once per quafter of the year.
SECTION 16. INFORMATIOil AND EDUCATIOil CAMPAIGil - There shall
be a Public Information Drive regarding the implementation of this Ordinance, which shall
be headed by the City Information Office (CIO) in coordination with concerned agencies.
The CIO should likewise coordinate with the private sector to disseminate information on
disaster preparedness. Information dissemination through signages, flyers, audio-visual
presentations, and other forms of public information dissemination shall be established
and placed. The concerned agencies shall coordinate with the CIO for the dissemination
of information before, during, and after the occurrence of disasters.
SECTION 17. REVIEW OF PREEMPTIVE AND EMERGENCY EVACUATION
ORDIilANCE - The CDRRMO, BFP, and other concerned agencies shall review the
guidelines provided in this Ordinance every three (3) years to ensure that the emergency
responses are appropriate for natural and man-made disasterc or hazards.
SECTION 18. REPEALING CIAUSE- Any ordinance, order, memorandum, rule
and regulation which is inconsistent with the provisions of this Ordinance is hereby
modified or repealed accordingly.
SECTION 19. SEPARABILITY CLAUSE - If, for any reason, any SECTION of this
Ordinance is declared unconstitutional or invalid, other sections or provisions hereof
which are not affected thereby, shall continue to be in full force and effect.
SECTION 20. EFFECTMTY- This Ordinance shall take effect fifteen (15) days
after its publication in a newspaper of general circulation within the City.
ENACTED, on the 4h day of July 2023, by a unanimous vote of all the Members
of the Sanggunian, there being a quorum.
CERTIFIED CORRECT:
^A^"'f \^ flCHARTTO N. SANTOS
Secretary to the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod
(City Government Department Head II)

ATTESTED:
APPROVED
Ord. No. 0246-23
2023
Z. DUTERTE
J.M
,J
Etc[oR B. QUrrArN JR
/ vice Mayor
Presiding Officer
cns/kjtq
cltr
AU6 29
Mayor v
,y
ATTESTED:
ATTY.
H. LAYOG
Acting
nistrator
ENACTING AN ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING THE INTEGRATED PRE-EMPTIVE AND EMERGENCY
EVACUATION STSTEM IN CASE OF EMERGENCIES CAUSED BY NATURAL OR MAN.MADE
HAZARDS OR DISASTERS AND PROVIDING PENALTIES THEREFOR
t