t
20u'City Council
3d Regular Session
SERIES of 2023
PRESEI{T:
Vice Mayor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
C.ouncilor
Councilor
C,ouncilor
Councilor
@uncilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
C.ouncilor
Councilor
C,ouncilor
C,ouncilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
C.ouncilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Cpuncilor
ABSENT:
J. Melchor B. Quitain Jr.
- Presiding Officer
Marissa S. Abella
Nilo M. Abellera Jr.
Luna Maria Dominique S. Acosta
Bai Hundra Cassandra Dominique N. Advincula
Bernard E. Al-ag
Wilberto E. Al-ag
Al Ryan S. Alejandre
Dante L. Apostol Sr.
Conrado C. Baluran
Jessica M. Bonguyan
Louie John J. Bonguyan
Pilar C. Braga
Augusto Javier G. Campos III
Jonard C. Dayap
Edgar P. Ibuyan Jr.
Richlyn N. Justol-Baguilod
Diosdado Angelo Junior R. Mahipus
Rodolfo M. Mande
Jaffar U. Marohomsalic
Bonz Andre A. Militar
Temujin B. Ocampo
Myrna G. LDalodo-Ortiz
Alberto T. Ungab
Lorenzo Benjamin D. Villafuerte
Trisha Ann J. Villafuefte
Jesus Joseph P. Zozobrado III
Councilor Edgar R. Ibuyan Sr.
- OB- Attended the Liga ng
mga Barangay National
Executive Board (NEB)
Meeting/Assembly in Manila
ORDINANCE NO. 0155-23
SERIES of 2O23
AN ORDINANCE GRANTING PERSONS WITH DISABILITY, WITH
DULY ISSUED IDENTIFICATIOil CARDS BY THE CITY
GOVERNMENT OF DAVAO, FREE MOVIE PRMIEGE TO ALL
CINEMAS Iil THE CITY OF DAVAO

Ord. No.0155-23
Be it ordained by the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod of Davao City in session
assembled, that:
SECTION 1, SHORT TITLE - This Ordinance shall be known as the
"Persons with Disability Free Movie Privilege Ordinance".
SECTION 2. DEFINITION OF TERMS - For purposes of this Ordinance,
the following terms are defined:
2.1 Percons with Disability (PWDs) are defined by Republic Act No.7277
or the Magna Cafta fior Disabled Persons as persons suffering from
restriction of different abilities, as a result of a mental, physical or sensory
impairment, to peform an activity in the manner or within the range
considered normal for a human being. An impairment is any loss,
diminution or aberration of psychological, physiological, or anatomical
structure of function. Disability shall mean (1) physical or mental
impairment that substantially limits one or more psychologica!,
physiological or anatomical function of an individual or activities of such
individual; (2) a record of such an impairment; or (3) being regarded as
having such an impairment.
Persons designated by law as PWDs, such as Cancer Survivors pursuant
to Republic Act No. 11215 or the National Integrated Cancer Control Act,
persons with Rare Diseases under Republic Act No. LA747 or the Rare
Diseases Act of the Philippines, and other related laws shall be considered
as PWDs.
2.2 A Cinema or Movie theater is a venue, usually a building or located
within malls, that contains seating for an audience for the purpose of
public enteftainment. It is a commercial operation that plays films or
movies fur paying customers.
2.3 PWD ldentification Card (PWD ID)refers to the official Identification
Cards issued by the City Govemment of Davao to persons classified as
PWDs. It shall bear the name, picture and type of disability of the PWD;
2.4 Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) refers to a company's voluntary -
commitment to conduct business in an ethical way, and to contribute to
the development of society and the local communrty.
SECTIOil 3. GUIDELINES AND REGULATIOilS - The following acts
shall be obserued in the implementation of this Ordinance:
3.1 FREE MOVIE PRMIEGE. Persons with Disability with duly issued
PWD IDs shall enjoy the privilege of free movie access to any film of their
choice, in a cinema or movie theater. The free movie privilege shall be
non-transferable and may only be availed of by the PWD. If the PWD
cannot personally transact with cinema personnel, he/she may be
represented by his/her companion for transaction purposes, provided,
they are present during the transaction. Cinemas or cinema operators

Ord. No.0155-23
must strictly implement a 'NO PWD ID, NO ENTRY" policy. The PWD
must also present his/her movie pass booklet upon entry.
The free movie privilege only applies to regular movie screenings,
excluding specialcinemas such as Dolby Atmos, IM$(Theaters, Dirccb/s
Club, and 3D and 4D theaters. For blockbuster films, the ftee movie
privilege may only be availed of during its second week. The said privilege
does not extend to screenings for special events such as sponsored movie
premierc, pay-per-view shows, and the like.
3.2 MOVIE PASS BOOKLET. The Persons with Disabilities Affairs ffice
(PDAO) shall issue availing PWDs with a Movie Pass Booklet. The said
booklet shall contain the serial number, PWDs full name, photo, address,
PWD ID number, and signature. The booklet shall also contain the dates
and number of movies that the PWD may avail of during the entire year.
The movie pass booklet shall be non-transferable and must be presented
by the PWD to the cinema personnel upon entry.
3.3 VERIFICATIOII. For purposes of verification of PWD IDs, Cinema
Operators must refer to the Philippine Registry for Person with Disability
Website (PRPWD). Should cinema operators wish to conduct fufther
verificaUon, they may also contact the Records SECTION of the City Social
Welfare and Development ffice (CSWDO) at (082) 286-3689.
3.4 AVAILMEilT. The free movie pass may be availed of only by Pl/tlDs
registered under the City Government of Davao. They may avail of the
free movie privilege once a week, every Monday, and during the first
screening only. However, cinemas are not prohibited fiom offering the
ftee movie privilege on additional days of the week.
The free movie pass is good for one screening only per week. Should the
PWD opt to screen another movie on the scheduled ftee movie privilege
day, they will have to pay the regular movie entrance with the 20olo
discount provided for under the law.
3.5 PARTICIPATING CINEMAS. On the day
may avail of
the Free Movie Privilege, cinema owners or
should
at least
PWDs.
5o/o of the total seating capacity of the movie theater
3,6 MEMORAI{DUM OF AGREEMEJ{T. The City Govemment of Dava6
shall enter into a Memorandum of Agreement with all cinemas, cinema
owners, and cinema operators within the jurisdiction of the City of Davao
upon the effiectively of this Ordinance. The Memorandum of Agreement
shall provide the specific day and time when the privilege may be availed
of, the allotrnent of seats for PWDs, and the proof of identification rcquired
to be presented to avail of the free movie access in the available movie
theaters of the cinema operators.
i..

Ord. No.0155-23
The free movie privilege granted to PV1/Ds under this Ordinance shall be
counted under the cinema's Corporate Social Responsibility program.
3.7 MONITORING SHEET. Cinema owners and operators must provide
a monthly monitoring sheet where the PWDs will register their full name,
signature, and PWD ID number upon availing of the privilege.
The Monitoring Sheet shall serue as proof of compliance to this
Ordinance, and must be available at any time for tracking purposes.
3.8 PIOSTERS AND NOTICES FOR PUBTIC AWARENESS. All cinemas
within the jurisdiction of the City of Davao are required to display posters
or notices on the cinema booths where cinema viewers transact to buy
tickets. The posters or notices shall be written in big, legible text and shall
contain the privilege of PWDs to free movie access, the date and time of
scrcening, and the number of seats allotted br PWDs who may avail of
the said access.
The posters or notices shall serue the purpose of generating public
awareness of the free movie privilege of PWDs and ensuring that the
provisions of this Ordinance are duly implemented.
3.9 THEATER SEATS. Cinemas shall allocate and reserye comfoftable
and convenient seats for PWD viewerc. The reserued seats shall also be
easily accessible to PWD viewers. However, PWD viewers may opt to sit
anywhere aside from the reserved seats within the cinema to their liking.
PWD viewerc in wheelchairs must have a designated space within the
cinema, in accordance with Batas Pambansa Blg. 344 or "An Act to
Enhance the Mobility of Disabled Persons by Requiring Certain Buildings,
Institutions, Establishments and Public l.Jtilities to install Facilities and
Other Devices".
SECTION 4. @-Thisordinance
shall be enforceil
in all cinemas within the jurisdiction of the City of Davao.
J
SECTIOI{ 5. PENE - Any person who commits fraudulent means to
avail of this privilege shall be penalized as follows:
5.1 First offense - a fine of Two Thousand Pesos (PhP 2,000.00);
5.2 Second offense - a fine of Three Thousand Pesos (PhP 3,000.00);
5.3 Third offense - a fine of Five Thousand Pesos (PhP 5,000.00).
If the violation under SECTION 5 is committed through fraudulent means,
such as falsification of a PWD ID, the offiender shall also be punished in
accordance with the provisions of the Revised Penal Code (Rrc).
Cinema operatorc or personnel who encounter violators of this Ordinance
under SECTION 5 may report to the nearest police station.

Ord. No.0155-23
SECTION 6. ORDINAI{CE VIOLATION RECEIPT OR CITATIO]I
EgGf.- An Ordinance Violation Receipt, othenntise known as a "Citation Tickef'
shall be issued to the violators of this Ordinance. The Citation T]cket shall state
the name and address of the violatorc, the specific violation committed and the
provisions of the succeeding SECTION on the "No Contest Provision".
If the violation of this Ordinance be deemed to have been committed by a
corporation, partnership or juridical entity, duly recognized in accordance with law,
the chief executive fficer, president, general manager, managing partner, or such
other officer-in-charge, if known, shall be cited for the commission of the offense.
SECTION 7. NO CONTEST PROVISION - Any person cited for violation
of this Ordinance, who does not wish to contest the violation and is willing to pay
voluntartly the fine imposed upon him or her under the Ordinance prior to the filing
of a furmal complaint before the ffice of the City Prosecutor shall be allowed to
pay said fine with the City Treasurer's Office to avoid being criminally prosecuted.
The availment of the "No Contest Provision" shall exempt an individual from
criminal liability under this Ordinance.
For this purpose, the City Legal ffice and the City Treasure/s ffice shall
provide the procedure for the availment of the "No C-ontest Provision" and establish
a case inventory and recording system for all violations of this Ordinance.
Provided, that if a violator has already availed of the "No Contest Provision,"
he or she can no longer avail of the same and the corresponding complaint for any
violation of this Ordinance shall be immediately filed.
SECTION 8.
- Within a period of six (6)
months after the enactnent of this Ordinance, th€ executive must release the
Implementing Rules and Regulations for the execution of this Ordinance.
SECTION 9. REPEALING CLAUSE - The provisions of any ordinance,
resolution, order, rules and regulations that are inconsistent with this Ordinance
are hereby repealed, modified or amended accordingly.
SECTION 10. W
- If for any reason, any SECTION
or provision of this Ordinance shall be declared unconstitutional or invalid, no other
sections or provisions shall be affected thereby.
SECTION 11. EFFECTMTY-This Ordinance shalltake effect afterthirty
(30) days following its approval and publication in a newspaper of local circulation
consistent with the provisions of the Local Government Code.
EilACTED, on the 24n day of January 2023, by a unanimous vote of allthe
Memberc of the Sanggunian, there being a guorum.
ri

Ord. No.0155-23
CERTIFIED CORREfi:
cfiaff,.dx5-*6'
Secretary to the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod
(City Government Department Head If.
ATTESTED:
J.
t-L
MELCHoR B. QUrrArN JR.
/vice Mayor
Presiding fficer
cns/mark
F,tts r'l
APPROVEDT
FEB Z I zln
2423
SE
City
ATTESTED:
ATTY.
H. LAYOG
Acting
AN ORDINANCE GRANTING PERSONS WITH DISABIUTY, WITH DULY $SUED IDENTIFICATION CARDS
BY THE CITY GOVERNMENT OF DAVAO, FREE MOVIE PRMLEGE TO ALL CINEMAS IN THE CITY OF DAVAO