Republic of ![e Philippines
19th City Council
25th Regutar Session
SERIES of 2O21
PRESEl{T:
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
C,ouncilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
ABSEI{T:
Edgar P. Ibuyan Jr.
- Temporary Presiding Officer
Ralph O. Abella
Nilo D. Abellera
Maria Belen S. Acosta
Bai Hundra Cassandra Dominique N. Advincula
Wilbefto E. Al-ag
Dante L. ApostolSr.
Conrado C. Baluran
Jessica M. Bonguyan
Louie John J. Bonguyan
Pilar C. Braga
Augusto Javier G. Campos III
Danilo C. Dayanghirang
Jonard C. Dayap
Edgar R. Ibuyan Sr.
Richlyn N. Justol-Baguilod
Pamela A. Librado-Morata
Diosdado Angelo Junior R. Mahipus
Bonifacio E. Militar
Myrna G. L'Dalodo-Ortiz
Antoinette G. Principe-Castrodes
J. Melchor B. Quitain Jr.
Alberto T. Ungab
Mary Joselle D. Villafuerte
Jesus Joseph P. Zozobrado III
Vice Mayor
Councilor
Sebastian Z. Duterte
Jaflar U. Marohomsalic
- On Official Business
- On Sick Leave
oRDrltAl{CE t{O. 0632-21
SERIES ot2O2L
AN ORDIT{AT{CE AMENDII{G THE PROVISIOilS OF
oRDTNANCE NO. 5003 (COCKFTGHTTilG ORDrl{At{CE OF
DAVAO CrTY), SERTES OF L997, OTHERWTSE KNOWN AS THE
NEW COCKFIGHTII{G CODE OF DAVAO CITY TO INCLUDE E.
SABONG AS A MODE OF BETTTI{G, AND AMUSEMEilT FOR
TOCAL COCKFIGHTITIG AHICIOIIADOS

Page 2 ot 14
Ord. No.0632-21
Be it ordained by the Honorable SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod of Davao City, in
session assembled, that:
SECTION 1. TITLE - This Ordinance shall be known as 'AN ORDINAI{CE
AMENDTNG THE PROVTSTONS OF ORDTNANCE r{O. 5003 (COCKFIGHTING
ORDINANCE OF DAVAO CITY), SERIES OF 1997, OTHERWISE KNOWN AS THE
NEW COCKFIGHTING CODE OF DAVAO CITY TO INCTUDE E-SABONG AS A
MODE OF BETTING, AND AMUSEMENT FOR LOCAL COCKFIGHTING
AFICIONADOS".
SECTION 2. DEFIT{ITION OF TERMS - As used in this Ordinance, the
following terms shall be understood, construed, and applied as follows:
a) Cockfighting (Sabong) - shall embrace and mean the commonly known game
or term "Cockfighting Derbyi "Pintakasii "Tupada", or its equivalent terms in
different Philippine localities.
b) Cockpit (Sabongan) - The properly enclosed or fenced premise or compound
provided with one or more gates or doors for definite points of entrance and
exit, and licensed in accordance herewith for the holding of cockfighting
derby, pintakasi, tupada or its equivalent term in different Philippine localities.
c) Cockfight (Soltada) - The actual fight or physical combat of two (2) pitted or
evenly matched gamecocks, where bets on either side are laid.
d) International Derby- Means a cockfight promotion with participants from
different nations.
e) National Derby - means a cockfight promotion with nationwide pafticipation.
0 Regional Derby - means a cockfight promotion with participants from a
particular region.
g) Regular Cockfight - means a cockfight held on Sundays and/or Legal
Holidays.
h) Special Cockfight - means a cockfight held on days other than Sundays
and/or Legal Holidays for special purpose.
i) Special Permit - means a permit secured from the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod
to hold cockfighting on day other than Sundays and Legal Holidays.
j) Cockpit Manager - A person who professionally, regularly and habitually
manages a cockpit and cockfights therein. He may or may not be owner of
the cockpit himself.
k) Referee (Sentenciador) - A person who watches and oversees the progress of
the cockfight and decides its results by announcing the winner or declaring a
draw or no contest game.
l) Bet Manager (Kasador) - A person who calls and takes care of bets from
owners of both gamecocks and those of other bettors before he orders
commencement of the cockfight and thereafter, distributes winning bets to
the winners after deducting a ceftain commission.
m) Bet-Taker (Kristo) - A person who participates in cockfights and with the use
of money or other things of value, bets with other bettors, or through other
bet-takers and wins or losses his bets depending upon the result of the
cockfight as announced by the referee or sentenciador.
n) Gaffer (Mananari) - A person knowledgeable in the technique of arming
fighting cocks with gaff of gaft on either or both legs.
o) Handler (Soltador) - A person who personally takes physical custody and
control, inside the area of a pifted gamecock and who actually releases the
same for actualfight combat in a cocldght.
p) Promoter - A person licensed by the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod as such, who
is engaged in the convening, meeting, holding and celebration of specially

Ord. No.0632-21
programmed and arranged cockfighUng like local and international derbies or
competitions, special mains of matches or encounter, pintakasi and ordinary
fights of hacKights.
q) Game cock - refers to domesticated fowls, whether imported or locally bred,
as well as the native fighting cock indigenous to the country, especially bred,
trained and conditioned for actual cockfighting or for propagation and
breeding purposes for eventual use in cocKightng.
r) Breeder - A person engaged in gamefowl breeding propagation for personal
and/or commercial purposes for eventual use in cockfighting.
s) Cocker (Aficionado) - A person who pafticipates and bets in cocKighting as a
sports, amusements, recreation or form of relaxation.
t) Zoning law or Ordinance - Either or both national or local city legislation
which logically arranges, prescribes, defines and appoftions a given political
subdivision into specific land uses at present and future projection, if needs
warrant in accordance with the Housing and Land Use Regulatory Board.
u) E-Sabong - is defined as the online/remote or off-site wagering/betting on
live cockfighting matches, events, and/or activities streamed or broadcasted
live from cockpit arena/s licensed or authorized by the Local Government
Units having jurisdiction thereof.
v) Live Streaming - transmit or receive live video and audio coverage of an
event over the internet.
w) Data Streaming - a sequence of digitally encoded coherent signals used to
transmit or received information that is in the process of being transmitted.
x) Franchise - an authorization granted by the Local Government of Davao City
to an individual or group enabling them to carry out specified commercial
activities.
y) Sultada - is one round of cockfighting.
z. Plasada - the percentage of the betting paid to the owner of a cockpit.
aa. Admission Fees - means any amount paid or consideration given for
entrance, seats, tables, reserued or otherwise, and other similar
accommodations, including charges for the use of facilities therein,
irrespective of whether or not an admission ticket is issued in exchange for
such admission fee or consideration.
SECTION 3. RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR TRADITIONAT SABONG -
The Rules and Regulations of the Philippine Gamefowl Commission, adopted on June 1,
1981, and the provisions of P.D. 1802 and other amendments, affecting cockpit,
cocKighting, and cockpit personnel and P.D. 149, (Cockfighting Law of L974) as
amended, are hereby adopted by the City as part of this Ordinance, as follows:
COCKPIT AND COCKFIGHTING RULES AND REGULATIONS
a) Ownerchip, Operation and Management of Cockpits - Only Filipino
citizens not otherwise inhibited by existing laws, shall be allowed to own,
manage and operate cockpits; provided that cooperative capitalization is
encouraged.
b) Establishment of Cockpits - Only one (1) cockpit shall be allowed in each of
the eleven (11) political districts namely: Poblacion, Talomo, Agdao,
Buhangin, Bunawan, Paquibato, Toril, Tugboh Calinan, Baguio and Marilog
Districts and those that maybe hereafter created, except in political districts
with a population of over one hundred thousand (100,000), two (2) cockpits
may be established, maintained and operated.

Page 4 of t4
Ord. No. O632-2L
c) Cockpit Site and Construction - Cockpits shall be constructed and operated
within the appropriate areas as prescribed in the Zoning Ordinance. In the
absence of such Ordinance, the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod shall enact an
ordinance that no cockpits are constructed within or near existing residential
or commercial areas, hospitals, school buildings, churches or other public
buildings. Approval or issuance of building permits for the construction of
cockpit shall be made in accordance with the Building Code and the Zoning
Ordinance of the city.
d) Licensing of Cockpits - Subject to the provisions of Book II of Republic Act
No. 7160, the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod shall enact an ordinance authorizing
the issuance of License to operate cockpits in the City of Davao pursuant to
the provisions of Article 99, (a), (3) paragraph (v) of Adminishative Order No.
270, Prescribing the ImplemenUng Rules and Regulations of the Local
Government Code of 1991.
e) Requirements for Licensing of Cockpits - The following requirements
must be fully applied with bebre the issuance of licenses:
1) New License - Every application for new license to operate or maintain a
cockpit shall be accompanied with the following:
a) The location and vicinity plan of the cockpit.
b) The cockpit building plan/design as approved by the City
Engineer, and a Ceftification by him to the effect that the
cockpit was constructed in accordance with such approved
plan/design.
c) A certification by the Zoning Administrator to the effect that the
cockpit building was constructed in the area allowed by the
Zoning Ordinance, and that it is not within a radius of 200 lineal
meters from any existing residential or commercial areas,
hospitals, school buildings, churches, or other public buildings.
d) Official Receipts showing payment of City taxes, fees, and other
levies prescribed by Ordinance No, 230, s. 1991, as amended,
and other ordinances that may hereafter be promulgated by the
e) Sanitary Permit/Clearance.
2) Annual Renewa! - Every application for the annual renewal of a license
to operate or manage a cockpit shall be submitted not later than the last
working day of December of each year, and shall be accompanied with
the following:
a) Official Receipts showing payment of City taxes, fees and other
levies as prexribed in Ordinance No. 230, and other ordinances
that may hereafter be promulgated by the SANGGUNIANG
Panlungsod;
b) In case the cockpit was constructed more than ten (10) years
before the date of renewal application, Certification ftom the
City Engineer to the effect that such cockpit is free from
material, structural or other physical hazards.

Ord. No.0632-21
f) Registration of Cockpits - All cockpits in Davao City shall register with the
Office of the City Mayor, through the Business Bureau No cockpit shall be
allowed to operate without proper registration certificate being secured not
later than January 20 annually.
g) Registration Certificate - In order to secure a Registration Certificate, the
applicant shall submit the following documents:
An application stating therein the name of the cockpit
A copy of the location and vicinity plan of the cockpit
A copy of the cockpit building plan/design
A certified copy of the Mayor's Permit/License
A copy of the Sanitary Permit/Clearance
A photocopy/copies of official receipts of payments
2 perspective photographs ofthe cockpit, and
A list of all duly licensed perconnel and copy of their respective
licenses.
h) Holding of Cockfights - Except as provided in this Ordinance, cockfighting
shall be allowed only in licensed cockpits, during Sundays and Legal Holidays,
and during local fiestas, for not more than three (3) days. It may also be held
during City Agricultural, Commercial or Industrial Fairs, carnivals or
expositions, for a similar period of three (3) days upon resolution of the
SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod; Provided, that no cockfighting shall be held on
December 30 (Rizal Day), June 12 ( Philippine Independence Day), November
30 (National Heroes Day), Holy Thursday, Good Friday, Election and
Referendum Day and during Registration Day for such election or
referendum.
i) Cockfighting for Enteftainment of Tourists or for Charitable
Purposes, - Subject to the preceding subsection hereof, the City Mayor may
also allow the holding of cockfighting for the entertainment of foreign
dignitaries or for tourists, or for returning Filipinos, commonly known as
"Balikbayani or for the support of national or city fund-raising campaigns for
charitable purposes, as may be authorized by the President or Ure
SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod, upon the latter's resolution, in licensed cockpits;
Provided that this privilege shall be extended for only one (1) time, for a
period not exceeding three (3) days, within a year in the City or in each of
the political districts.
j) Other Games During Prescribed Cockfights. - No gambling of any kind
shall be permitted on the premises of the cockpit or place of cockfighting
during cockfights. The owner, manager, or lessees of such cockpit and the
violators of this injunction shall be criminally liable under SECTION 12 hereof.
k) Specia! Permits:
1. Special permits can be issued only under the circumstances enumerated in
sub-paragraphs (h) and (l) above. Provided, that derbies and cockfighting
covered by these permits shall be held only on days other than Sundays
and Legal Holidays.
2. No special cocKights shall be allowed unless authorized by the
SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod through an approved resolution at least 30 days
before the event.
I

Ord. No.0632-2L
3. Every application shall be signed by the owner/operator or licensee of the
cockpit where such special cockfights are to be held, and countersigned
by the promoter or a representative of the beneficiary, to be supported
with the necessary documents, as follows:
a) A copy of Presidential or Mayor's proclamation authorizing the
fund-raising campaign;
b) Letter request of the beneficiary to the cockpit owner, operator
or licensee to stage special cockfights in a particular cockpit;
c) Resolution of the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod during official town
fiestas and agricultural, industrial or commercial fairs, carnivals
or expositions;
d) Resolution of the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod for the support of
national fund-raising campaigns for draritable or other purposes
as may be authorized by the Office of the President or the City
Mayor.
4. No international cockfight derby may be held without an approved
resolution by the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod authorizing the same for the
promotion of not more that eight (8) international cockfight derbies every
year in Davao City, for the support of national fund-raising campaigns as
may be authorized by the ffice of the President, upon application of duly
qualified promoters and countersigned by the owner/operator or licensee
of the cockpit. Such application shall be filed at least sixty (60) days
before the scheduled intemational cocKight derby. In all these cases, the
above requirements are necessary.
5. Every application for an international cockfight derby shall be supported
with the following documents:
a) A copy of Proclamation authorizing the fund raising campaign;
b) Letter request from the beneficiary for the holding of an international
derby in a particular cockpit; and
c) A list of expected foreign and local participants.
l) Prohibition Against Percons - No person less than fifteen (15) years of
age shall be allowed inside the premises of the cockpit during cockfight. The
operator, manager or licensee shall be responsible for the strict compliance of
this rule.
SECTION 3A. RULES AND REGUIATIOI{S FOR ELECTRONIC SABOI{G:
a.) APPLICABIUW - These provisions shall apply to local cockpit
operators having an option to conduct cockfighting events through
electronic means where cockfighting enthusiasts may participate.

PageT of 14
Ord. No.0632-2L
b.) NATURE AI{D TERM OF FRANCHISE OF THE E-Sabong -
Subject to the provisions of applicable laws, rules and regulations,
a Franchisee may broadcast live and data stream cockfighting
activities and derbies at the appropriate designated establishments
within the City of Davao, provided that the cockfighting subject to
broadcast shall only be done in a licensed cockpit, including the
acceptance of bets through electronic means within the territorial
jurisdiction of Davao City;
The appropriate designated establishments where the grantee
intends to broadcast and live stream cockfighting activities and to
establish, operate and maintain off-site cockpit betting stations
shall be located and operated only within appropriate areas as
prescribed by zoning laws and applicable ordinances. No
establishment shall be operated and maintained within the radius
of two hundred (200) lineal meters from any existing school
buildings, churches and public buildings. Further, the owners of the
said commercial establishments shall take measures to prevent
minors from viewing the said cockfighting activities.
c.) AUTHORITY OF THE OFFICE OF THE CITY MAYOR. The
Grantee shall apply and secure the required business permit to
operate from the Office of the Mayor and the latter shall have
authority to require compliance of all existing laws, ordinances,
rules and regulations similarly imposed to all
business
establishments and impose conditions thereto as are expressly or
impliedly necessary for the protection of the welfare and safety of
all persons going or transacting in said commercial establishments,
then, the Grantee shall get an endorsement from the City Mayor's
Office for a Resolution of No Objection from the City Council.
d.) PROHTBmON OF SALE, LEASE, USUFRUCT AND TRAilSFER
OF FRANCHISE. - An electronic sabong franchise is
non-transferable in character. As such, the Grantee shall not sell,
assign, lease, grant the usufruct of, or transfer its franchise,
including rights and privileges acquired thereunder to any person/
natural or juridical, firm or other entities, nor merge with any
corporation or individual without prior notice and approval of the
Sanggu niang Panlungsod.
e.) MANDATORY PAYMENT OF TAXES AND FEES PROVISIOilS.
- The Grantee shall be liable to pay all taxes and other fees
presoibed by the City of Davao. The assessment shall be without
prejudice to the subsequent imposition as may be adopted or
hereafter may be requircd by law or ordinance. Failure on the part
of the grantee to promptly and regularly comply with said tax
obligations shall be a ground for the automatic revocation or
cancellation of its franchise;

Ord. No.0632-21
f.)
FRAIICHISE TAX. - There is hereby imposed a franchise tax as
provided for in Afticle V, SECTION 41 of Ordinance No. 0291-L7,
SERIES of 2017, consisting of 87o/o of lolo of the gross receipts
derived by the franchisee from the plasada made through
electronic means, within Davao City, or the amount of One
Hundred Thousand Pesos (PhP100,000.00) per event, per day,
whichever is higher.
g.) AMUSEITIEI{T TAX. - There is hereby levied a tax to be collected
from the operator of the local cockpit where the cockfighting
activity is actually conducted, or in appropriate designated areas
where such fights are broadcasted at a rate of 20o/o of the gross
receipts from admission fees.
Further, an amusement tax will be collected from the franchisee of
the actual cockfighting being broadcasted in an e-sabong system in
the amount of Three Hundred Fifiy Pesos (PhP 350.00) per sultada.
h.) OBLIGATION OF THE FRANCHISEE. - The franchisee must
regularty furnish the City Mayor or his duly authorized
representative, an updated list of all its authorized
agents/coordinators acting in furtherance of their operations and all
accounts they are using in receiving bets from its players.
They shall likewise ensure that all account funding and withdrawal
shall be done only through legitimate channels, such as over-thecounter and online banking, e-Wallet systems, and through other
legitimate money transfer services.
Further, the franchisee must also ensure that all its authorized
agents must secure their own coresponding Mayo/s Permit to
operate, and that no agent shall be allowed to commence operation
without the necessary permit.
i.)
TIME AND PLACE OF PAYMENT.-The franchise tax shall be paid
to the City Treasurer's Office once within the first twenty (20) days
of January, or in quarterly installments within the first twenty days
ofJanuary, April and October ofeach year.
Fufther, the amusement tax herein imposed shall be due and
payable to the City Treasure/s Office within the first ten (10) days
of the month following that for which they are due.
j.)
OTHER GAMBLING ACTMTIES.- All gambling games of any
kind shall at any time be hereby prohibited at the premises of the
off-site business operation. The managers or lessee/s of such
off-site business and the violators of this provision shall be
prosecuted and held criminally liable under the provisions of
existing laws.

Ord. No.0632-21
k.) ANTI-FRAUD }IEASURES.- The Office of the City Mayor shall
adopt such measures to prevent the use of fraudulent means or
manipulation in all aspects of coddghting. Persons employing
fraudulent means or manipulation shall be prosecuted in
accordance with penal laws as may be warranted by the prevailing
circumstances. Any breach and/or circumvention of any of the
conditions set in this Ordinance shall be a cause for the suspension
or revocation of the issued e-Sabong Gaming License.
l.)
HOLDIilG OF COCKFTGHTS,- Cocldghting shall be broadcasted
from Mondays to Sundays and legal holidays and during local
fiestas. It may also be held during city agricultural, commercial or
industrial fair, carnival or exposition for a similar period of three
days upon resolution of the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod: Provided,
that no cocmghting shall be held on December 30, (Rizal Day),
June 12 (Philippine Independence Day), November 30 (National
Heroes Day), Holy Thursday, Good Friday, Election or Referendum
Day and during Registration Days for such election or referendum.
m.) COCKFIGHTII{G FOR EI{TERTAINMENT OF TOURISTS OR
FOR CHARITABLE PURPOSES - Subject to the preceding
subsection hereof, the City Mayor may also allow the holding of
cockfighting for the entertainment of foreign dignitaries or for
tourists, or for returning Filipinos, commonly known as
"Balikbayan", or for the support of national fund-raising campaigns
for charitable purposes as may be authorized by the Office of the
President or the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod, in licensed cockpits or in
playgrounds or parks: Provided, that this privilege shall be
extended for only one Ume, for a period not exceeding three days,
within a year in the City or in each of the political districts.
n.) IT DEVELOPMENT - The ftanchisee must coordinate with the City
Information Technology Center and oeate measures wherein the
taxes will be automatically collected and paid upon the placement
of the bet of the online bettor.
sEctroil 4.
- All breeders of gamefowl are
required to register with the City Agriculturisf,s Office. The City Agriculturist shall furnish
the Office of the City Mayor, copy furnished the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod, with a
complete record of duly registered breeders.
SECTION 5, LICENSE FEES FOR COCKPITS - For this purpose, the annual
taxes shall be collected by the City Treasurer, as follows:
a) In the Poblacion, Talomo, Agdao and
Buhangin
----P 5,000.00
b) Toril, Tugbok, Calinan and Bunawan
2,000.00
c) In other Districts
1,000,00

Ord. No. 0632-21
SECTION 6. AMUSEMENTS
ON ADMISSIOT{
a) Imposition of Tax - There is being levied and imposed upon the
proprietor, lessee operator or promoter of cockpits that charge
admission or entrance fees within the territorial jurisdiction of the City
of Davao, a tax on admission fee in addition to the taxes and fees
imposed under Sections 5 and t hereof.
b) Exemption - The tax herein imposed do not apply in the following
cases, provided that exemption should first be obtained for this
purpose through an approved resolution of the SANGGUNIANG
Panlungsod, upon recommendation of the CityTreasurer:
1. Where the admission fees are collected for and in behalf of
charitable, educational or religious associations who are declared
by law or presidential proclamation as exempted from the payment
of amusement tax, provided, further, that such exhibition, show
performance and the like shall be limited to only three (3) days in a
calendar year.
2. Provided, further, that said exemptions shall be applicable only to
the share of the sponsoring exempt institutions or organizations as
aforementioned. However, the remaining proceeds, including those
accruing to the promoter, shall be subject to the payment of
amusement tax in accordance with the above rates.
The City Treasurer shall promulgate rules and regulations
necessary for the effective implementation of the provision of
paragraph (b) of this SECTION, subject to the approval by the City
Mayor.
c) Time of Payment - The taxes herein imposed shall be collected as
part and not in addition to the price of admission tickets at the time
patrons or customers are admifted to the amusement places or
establishments.
The taxes herein above imposed shall be due and payable within the
first five (5) days of the month next following that for which they are
due, by the proprietor, lessee, operator and promoter, and such taxes
to be determined on the basis of a true and complete return of the
amount of gross receipts derived during the preceding month. If the
tax is not paid within the time fixed above, the taxpayer shall be
subject to such surcharges, anterest and penalties prescribed by this
Ordinance.
d) Administrative Provisions.
1. Remittance of Tax Surcharge for late remittance.- The
proprietor, lessee, operator, or promoter of cockpits shall withhold
the amusements tax on admission.

Ord. No. 0532-21
The amusement tax withheld shall be remitted to the City
Treasurer within the first five (5) days of the month. The
proprietor, lessee, operator, or promoter concerned shall make a
complete return of the gross receipts derived during the preceding
month which shall be the basis for determining the tax due.
Failure to pay the tax within the time fixed herein above shall
render those concerned liable to a surcharge of twenty-five percent
(25o/o) of the original amount plus an interest at the rate of
foufteen percent (l4o/o) per annum on the amount due until the
same is fully paid. In case of willful neglect to file the return and
pay the tax within the time required, or ftaudulent return or a false
return is willfully made, the taxpayer shall be subject to surcharge
of fifty percent (50o/o) of the conect tax due plus fourteen percent
(l4o/o) interest per annum from due date until the same is fully
paid.
2. Ticket used as basis in paying the tax - Tlckets will be used
for collecting the amusement tax imposed in this SECTION.
Operators of cockpits shall keep a notice in big legible letters or
numbers posted in a conspicuous place in front of the ticket booths
showing the total admission price, which will include as part thereof
the city amusement taxes corresponding to each or kind of ticket.
3. Form of tickets, their regisfation - Every proprietor, lessee
operator or promoter of cockpit shall provide tickets which shall be
serially numbered, indicating therein the name of the amusement
place and the fee subject for admission. All tickets to be used
whether regular, special or complimentary or employee's pass shall
be presented to the Office of the City Treasurer for registration.
Whenever there is a change in the admission fee after registration,
a notice to that effect shall be registered with the City Treasurer
and be conspicuously posted in a place of business for the
information of the public. nckets presented at the gate or entrance
shall be cut into three parts, the 1s paft shall be returned to the
customer, the 2nd part to be retained by the management, and the
3d part shall be dropped in the CTO drop box, supplied by the City
Treasurer. The three (3) pats of the ticket shall bear the same
number. Sub-numbering of such tickets are strictly prohibited
and the use of slugs and other substitutes for the admission tickets
are strictly prohibited.
4. Verification and Inspection of Cockpits.- The City Treasurer
shall post an employee at the gate of cockpits for the purpose of
veriffing alltickets being sold thereat.
e) Applicability Clause- All other matters relating to the operation of
amusement places or establishments shall be governed by pertinent
laws, rules and regulations.

Ord. No.0632-2L
SECTION 7. COCKFIGHTII{G OFFICIALS - The following cockfighting
officials are required to register with the Business Bureau, City Mayor's ffice.
Promoters
Cockpit Managers
Referees ( Sentenciadores)
Bet-Takers (Kristos)
Bet- Manager (Kasadors)
Gaffers (Mananaris)
SECTION 8. LICEI{SI]{G OF COCKFIGHTIT{G OFFICIATS - Promoters, cock
pit managers, referees, bet-takers, bet-managers, or gaffers shall not act as such in any
authorized cockfighting without first securing a license renewable every year on their
bifthmonths ftom the City Mayor and the corresponding taxes, fees, and charges paid
to the City Treasurer, in accordance with this Ordinance. Only licensed cockfighting
officials shall officiate in all kinds of cockfighUng authorized in this Ordinance.
SECTIOI{ 9. FEES - In addition to the taxes, fees, and other levies imposed by
the City, under Sections 5 and 6 hereof, the following fees shall be paid to the City
Treasurer, pursuant to the provisions of the Local Government Code (R.A. No. 7160)
before any operation or activity can be conducted.
COCKPIT AND COCKFIGHTII{G FEES AND CHARGES
1. Application Filing fee
20.00
2. For cockpit registration (annually)
P
a) Cockpit located:
1) In the Poblacion (Dist. 1)
2) Other places
b) Ocular Inspection fee
3. For registration of cockpit personnel (Annually):
a) Operator, general manager, promoter, host,
or such other terms applied to persons promoting
or hosting a cockfight
b) Cockpit Manager
c) Referee (Sentenciador)
d) Cashier
e) Bet-Manager (Maciador/Kasado|
0 Derby Matchmaker
g) Bet-Taker (Kristo)
h) Gaffer (Mananari)
750.00
500.00
300.00
200.00
100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00
100.00
50.00
50.00

Ord. No. 0632-21
4. Special Permit Fees:
a) International Derby
b) Special Cockfights (Pintakasi)
5. Fee for Promoter of each Derby:
a) 2-cock derby
b) 3-cock derby
c) 4-cock derby
d) S-cock derby
6. For Special Derby Assessment:
a) For every winning cock
7. Filing fee for all complaints, petitions and/or
applications for proper equitable reliefr provided
for in this Code
5,000.00
1,000.00
250.00
s00.00
750.00
1,000.00
50.00
s00.00
SECTION 10. ANTI-FRAUD MEASURES All persons involved in
cockfightings and in the operation of cockpits, including, among others, the owner or
operator of cockpits, the cockpit officiall the cockers (aficionados) and government
officers involved in the issuance of permits or licenses and the inspection of cockpits,
must observe utrnost honesty, fair play, good faith, and peace and order.
SECTION 11. COMPLAINTS AND PROTESTS - The City Legal Officer shall
take cognizance of complainb and protests relative to the operation and management
of cockpits or the conduct of cockfights, and violations of this Ordinance, which
complaints and protests must be in writing and under oath. The City Legal office shall
prescribe the rules and procedures governing such cases, subject to the approval of the
City Mayor.
SECTION 12. SUPPLETORY RULES - In all cases not covered herein, the
Rules and Regulations of the Philippine Gamefowl Commission, adopted on June 1,
1981, the provisions of P.D. 1802 and other amendments, affecting cockpits,
cockfighting, and cockpit personnel, and P.D. 449 (Cockfighting Law of 1974) as
amended, shallgovern.
SECTION 13. PENAL CLAUSE - Any violation of this Ordinance shall be
penalized by a fine not exceeding the amount of P 2,000.00, or an imprisonment of not
more than one (1) year or both at the discretion of the Couft, and the violator's coc(
hens and eggs, and all bets involved in the unlawful activity shall be confiscated in favor
of the City Government, turned over to the City Agriculturist and shall be disposed of by
the City Mayor in the manner provided by law, rules and regulations.
SECTION 14. REPEAUT{G CLAUSE - Sub-paragraph 21 (a to c), paragraph H,
Article 6, Chapter IV of Ordinance No. 230, S. 1991, as amended, and all ordinances,
rules and regulations which are inconsistent herewith are hereby repealed or modified
accordingly.

Ord. No.0632-2L
SECTION 15. SEPARABILITY CLAUSE - A juridical declaration that a paft of
this Ordinance is unlawful shall not affect the others.
SECTION 16. EFFECTMrY - This Ordinance shall commence to take effect
upon approval and after the required publication in a newspaper of general circulation.
ENACTED, on the 6m day of July 2021, by a majority vote of all the Members of
the Sanggunian, there being a quorum.
CERTIFIED CORRECT:
t
" Ahu'rt 1.WCHARITO N. SflNTOS
Secretary to the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod
(City Government Department Head II)
ATTESTED:
ED
President Pro
Temporary Presiding Officer
cns/ray
APPROVED:
AUG 2 4 2021
Z. DUTERTE
202L
- city Mayp
ATTESTED:
ATTY.
LEIKA
LOPEZ
City Administr
1O
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE PROVISIONS OF ORDINANCE NO. 5OO3 (COCKFIGHTING ORDINANCE OF DAVAO
CITY), SERIES ff T997, OTHERWISE KNOWN AS THE NR^/ COCKFIGHTING CODE OF DAVAO CITY TO INCLUDE E.
SABONG AS A MODE OF BETTING, AND AMUSEMENT FOR LOCAL COCKFIGHTING ANCIONADOS
R
re