a
19th City Council
18h Regular Session
SERIES of 202L
PRESENT:
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Edgar P. Ibuyan Jr.
Ralph O. Abella
Nilo D. Abellera
Maria Belen S. Acosta
Bai Hundra Cassandra Dominique N. Advincula
Wilbefto E. Al-ag
Dante L. Apostol Sr.
Conrado C. Baluran
Jessica M. Bonguyan
Louie John J. Bonguyan
Pilar C. Braga
Augusto Javier G. Campos III
Danilo C. Dayanghirang
Jonard C. Dayap
Edgar R. Ibuyan Sr.
Richlyn N. Justol-Baguilod
Pamela A. Librado-Morata
Diosdado Angelo Junior R. Mahipus
Jaffar U. Marohomsalic
Bonifacio E. Militar
Myrna G. L'Dalodo-Oftiz
Antoinette G. Principe-Castrodes
J. Melchor B. Quitain Jr.
Alberto T. Ungab
Mary Joselle D. Villafuefte
Jesus Joseph P. Zozobrado III
- Temporary Presiding Officer
ABSENT:
Vice Mayor Sebastian Z. Duterte
- On Official Business
ORDINANCE NO. 0581.21
SERIES ol 2O2L
AN ORDINANCE REGULATING GATHERINGS IN THE
CITY OF DAVAO AND PROVIDING PENALTIES THEREOF

'
ts
page2ofg
Ord. lVo. 0581-21
Be it ordained by the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod of Davao City in session
assembled, that:
SECTION 1. TITLE - This Ordinance shall be known as "AN ORDINANCE
REGULATING GATHERINGS IN THE CITY OF DAVAO AND PROVIDING
PENALTIES THEREOF."
SECTION 2. COVERAGE This Ordinance covers all
occasions, and all other instances wherein people gather together.
activities, events,
Gatherings shall be categorized as follows:
1. Essential Work Meetings and Events
a. Meetings, Incentives, Conventions, Exhibitions;
b. Workshops, trainings, seminars, conferences;
c. Board meetings;
d. Consumer trade shows or product event launches; and
e. Other analogous events
2. social Events and celebrations of personal Milestones
a. Debuts and Birthdays;
b. Weddings;
c. Baptisms;
d. And other analogous events
3. Community-based Events/ Barangay Events
4. Events in private homes and venues
5. Activities for leisure and enteftainment
6. Government Sanctioned Events
a. Medical and Dental Services; and
b. Food and Financial Assistance
Gatherings shall be governed by the following rules, provided that the City is
under General Community Quarantine (GCQ) or Modified General Community
Quarantine (MGCQ status:
1. Essential work meetings and events and social events and celebrations of
personal milestones shall be allowed in the City, following the Joint Memorandum
Circular (JMC) No. 2021-001 of the Department of Tourism (DOT) and
Depaftment of Trade and Industry (DTI);
2. Community-based gatherings/Barangay Events shall be limited to twenty-five
(25) individuals;
3. Events in private homes and venues shall not be more than twenty-five (25)
individuals;
4. Activities for leisure and enteftainment such as, but not limited to, concefts shall
not be allowed; and
5. Government sanctioned events shall be limited to fifty (50) individuals at any
given time, provided that the Minimum Public Health Standards (MPHS) and the
time for entry and exit of participants are observed.
Provided, the change of status of the City to Community Quarantine and New Normal
Status will be governed by the guidelines which may be imposed at that time.

Ord. No. 0581-21
SECTION 3. DEFINITION OF TERMS.
A. Athleisure Activities - activities which are not technically considered as
sports but are used for exercise and relaxation such as, but not limited to,
Zumba, Pilates, Yoga, etc.
B. Contact Spofts and Activities - refer to sports or activities that will
involve physical contact between and among participants (whether such
physical contact is part of the rules of the games or not), or causing them
to be within one (1) meter to any other person at any point during the
activity (e.9., football, basketball, etc.).
C, Essential Work Meetings and Events - shall refer to a congregation
of at least two (2) people, with or without external participants, vital to
the sustenance of the operations and business interests of the
organization and not for recreational or leisure purposes, such as
workshops, trainings, seminars, congresses, conferences, conventions,
board meetings, colloquia, conclaves, symposia, company/government
recognitions, and press conferences.
D. Event Organizer - any individual or legal entity employed to plan,
organize, and manage an event.
E. Maximum Venue Capacity - shall refer to the maximum number of
people that may be physically accommodated inside the premises of the
venue or facility, which shall not be more than the limitations set forth by
the Fire Code of the Philippines.
F. Minimum Public Health Standards (MPHS). The following are the
minimum public health standard that must be observed in all public
places:
1) Face mask covering the nose and mouth;
2) Physical distancing of not less than one (1) meter;
3) Availability of handwashing area with soap and water or alcohol;
and
4) Other guidelines or policies from the IATF
G. Non-contact Spofts shall refer to sports or activities in which
pafticipants are physically separated throughout its duration, thus
minimizing the possibility of making any form of purposeful or accidental
physical contact (e.9., racquet sports, biking, etc.)
H. Public beaches, rivers, streams - are beaches, rivers, and streams
that are open to the public and not owned by a private individual or
entity;
I. Social Events and Celebrations of Personal Milestones - private
gatherings to celebrate special occasions such as, but not limited, to debut
and birthday parties, wedding ceremonies and receptions, engagement
pafties, wedding anniversaries, family reunions, baptismal and religious
rites incidental to the aforementioned activities, and bridal or baby
shower.

ri
Ord. No. 0581-21
J. Spotts - shall refer to activities practiced through exercise and/or
competitions facilitated by sports organizations or by individual organizers.
K. Spofts Training - shall refer to the special process of preparation of
spotts persons based on scientific principles aimed at improving and
maintaining higher performance capacity in different sports activities,
Sports training refers to no contact martial arts training, athletics,
basketball, sepak takraw, football, volleyball and the like.
SECTION 4. ONLINE MEETINGS AND EVENTS. All government and private
offices are encouraged to shift to online meetings. All online meetings do not need a
permit, a guest limit, or curfew. However, real time online production and pre-event
activities shall be governed by SECTION 9.
SECTION 5. PLACES OF WORSHIP. All venues that are habitually and
regularly used as a place of worship can open up to fifty percent (50%) of their venue
capacity, but they must comply with the following:
A. Increase the spaces between their members to not less than one (1)
meter;
B. Community singing is prohibited, solo singer is allowed who shall be more
than three (3) meters away from other people. Unnecessary chatting
between individuals should be avoided;
c. Members who are below 18 years old, above 65 years old, those with
immunodeficiency, comorbidities, other serious health risks and pregnant
women may be excused from attending worship and may be provided
with online, radio or television prayer opportunities.
SECTION 6.
ESTABLISHMENTS.
RESTAURANTS- CARINDERIA
D OTHER
FOOD
A. All restaurants, carinderias and other food establishments, and/or catering
venues shall be allowed entry only to customers with properly worn face
masks;
B. Customers are allowed to remove their face masks only when eating or
drinking. A notice to this effect shall be placed on every table;
c. All seruers must wear a face shield on top of their face mask;
D. All of these establishments must abide by the social distancing
requirements in the arrangement of tables and chairs in the dining area
and other such venues as required by the IATF-EID and defined by the
proper government agency,
E. Restaurants which offer themselves as venues for events under SECTION 9
must follow the provisions specified therein.
F. Buffet service shall be allowed only when:
i. Food setvers are provided; and
ii. All food trays are with food covers
SECTTON 7. SPORTS AND LEISURE
A. FrrNEss cLUBs, GYMS, AND NoN-coNTAcr spoRTs. onty noncontact sports shall be allowed as a form of exercise which should be
limited to at least one (1) hour and a maximum of two (2) hours daily
with absolutely no sharing of equipment.

, . -
Page5ofg
Ord. No. 0581-21
All fltness clubs and gyms must be by appointment only. The club
or gym can only admit a maximum of five (5) members per hour
and at lro time can the facemask be taken off inside the club or
gym.
ii. Group activities for non-contact sports or outdoor fitness and
training activities, are allowed in open well-ventilated areas,
provided that all participants wear facemasks for the entire
duration of the activity and obserue a two-meter distance from
each other at all times.
iii. Clubs, gyffis, group activities and other establishments shalt
monitor the two-hour time limit for their members.
B. CONTACT SPORTS AND ACTMTIES. Cock-fighting (Sabong), billiards,
dafts, basketball, volleyball, soccer and all other contact sports not
enumerated herein are prohibited.
C. ATHLEISURE ACTIVITIES.
1. Organizers of zumba, pilates, Yo90, or other outdoor non-contact
group classes must first inform the City Spotts Development
Division through a request letter with attached exercise schedule
and list of participants, for approval.
2. A maximum of twenty-five (25) persons (including the instructor/s)
is allowed inside the venue.
3. The said organizers must also provide the following to promote
health and wellness, in their respective area:
a. Identify a designated area
i. Preferred area must be a covered court, parking lots,
and open spaces to ensure proper air flow system
and ventilation.
ii. Gyms and other enclosed spaces are not allowed'
b. Place a barrier around the designated area to prevent
outsiders and non-registered pafticipants to enter.
c. Allocate designated spots for pafticipants' area using tape
markers to spread more than two (2) meters apart, in a
form of a box.
d. Wearing of face masks is still required even during the class.
e. Decontamination area must be identifled. This includes:
i. Hand washing area;
ii. Sanitizing footbath mafi
iii. Thermal scanner/thermometer; and
iv. QR code scanner
f. Classes must be scheduled alternately and must have a
three (3) hour interval to avoid influx of participants in the
area.
g. There should be a separate entrance and exit in the venue.
h. Instructors must stay on stage and may use megaphone to
be heard. Instructors, must also announce precautionary
measures before stafting the class.

Ord. No. 0581-21
i. Extra-curricular activities (such as class photos/group selfies)
shall not be allowed before, during and after the said class.
j. Spectators shall-not be allowed.
D. INDMDUAL TRAINING. Face-to-face team sports training shall be
absolutely prohibited. Non-professional and professional athletes can train
for all kinds of spofts with no time limit but they can conduct individual
training only. Any training done by more than one (1) person is
considered a group activity and must comply with the relevant provisions
stated above.
E. TNTERNET SHOPS. Internet shops can open for all seruices except
gaming and entertainment streaming. Each shop must skip one place in
between each computer unit and sanitize all equipment in between
customers. Customers are not allowed to remove their face masks inside
internet cafes except for brief periods for eating, drinking water or taking
necessary photos.
F. BEACHES RESORTS, POOLS AND THE LIKE. Only establishments with
a valid Business Permit and a Ceftification from the City
Tourism/Depaftment of Tourism are allowed to operate and offer their
services to the public.
All gatherings in public beaches, rivers, streams or any other similar
places shall be prohibited.
Beach resofts and other similar establishments which offer themselves as
venues for events under SECTION 9 must follow the provisions specified
therein.
G. MOUNTAIN RESORTS, FARMS, AND OTHER LEISURE
ESTABLISHMENTS. These and other similar establishments which offer
themselves as venues for events under SECTION 9 must follow the
provisions specified therein.
H. REsr HousEs. Rest-houses of any kind may only be used by members
of the same family with no more than twenty-five (25) people at a time,
including caretakers and staff.
Rest houses and other similar establishments which offer themselves as
venues for events under SECTION 9 must follow the provisions specified
therein.
SECTION 8. HOLIDAY PARTIES. All Halloween, Christmas, New Year, or other
holiday pafties celebrated in public are prohibited. All holiday parties shall only be for
members of the same household inside their residences. Online pafties and celebrations
are highly recommended.
SECTION 9. SOCIAL EVENTS, CELEBRATIONS FOR PERSONAL
MILESTONES, AND ESSENTIAL WORK MEETINGS AND EVENTS. The conduct of
social events, celebrations of personal milestones, and essential work meetings and
events are allowed subject to the Minimum Public Health Standards (MPHS) and health
protocols set under relevant issuances, such as, but not limited to, Joint Memorandum
Circular (JMC) No. 2021-001 of the Department of Tourism (DOT) and Department of
Trade and Industry (DTI), IATF Omnibus Guidelines, etc.
I

Ord. No. 0581-21
Venues shall be allowed to hold social events, celebrations of personal milestones, and
essential work meetings and events, provided that the City is under General Community
Quarantine (GCQ) or Modified General Community Quarantine (MGCQ) status. provided
fufther, that the maximum venue capacity and duration shall be as follows:
TYPE OF EVENT
MAXIMUM VENUE CAPACITY
DURATION
Essential Work
Meetings and
Events
50o/o
Up to eight (B) hours, provided,
that disinfection protocols shall
beimplemented durinq breaks
Social Events and
Celebrations of
Personal
Milestones
30o/o
Up to three (3) hours
In the computation of the venue capacity, the venue operator or employees, organizers,
and suppliers shall be included.
Non-Essential Events shall be stricily prohibited.
Gatherings for social events, celebrations of personal milestones, and essential work
meetings and events shall be guided by the following:
A. All other guests can be connected online to the main event in another distinct
and separate venue but will still be limited by the number of individuals as
mentioned above.
B. Guests and service suppliers cannot hop from one venue to the other.
C. Where multiple venues are involved, the event organizer shall expressly indicate
the same in the application for a special event permit for Essential Meetings and
Event Notice for Social Events.
D. For purposes of monitoring, the management of the venue shall allow
government representatives to enter the premises immediately preceding,
during, and immediately after the event.
E. Successive events may be allowed provided that the maximum venue capacity is
complied with and that there is a time for entry and exit of guests, as well as
sanitation in between events, so that the two groups cannot gather together.
F. All social events under this SECTION is held outside the home of the celebrant and
requires the engagement of at least one special event supplier such as, but not
limited to, enteftainers, decorators and lights and sounds technicians and
attended by more than one household shall be required to file for an event
notice with the Davao city Tourism operations office (Dcroo).
G. Event organizers and suppliers must use their own Business permit in events.
SECTION 10. OTHER GATHERINGS.
A. Parade, motorcades, rallies, and other gatherings in public places are
absolutely prohibited. The right to free speech and expression in freedom
parks shall be respected but the event must be limited to twenty-five (25)
individuals and must be supervised by the Philippine National police (pNp)
and the City Health Office (CHO) to ensure that the Minimum public
Health Standards (MPHS) are implemented.

Page B of 9
Ord. No. 0581-21
B. Government events for distribution of goods and seruices can be
increased to fifty (50) individuals at a time provided that the following
MPHS can be strictly implernented:
i. Face mask covering the nose and mouth;
ii. Physical distancing of not less than one (1) meter;
iii. Availability of handwashing area with soap and water or alcohol.
SECTION 11. PROHIBITED ACTS. The following offenses are prohibited acts
under this Ordinance; without prejudice to the filing of other criminal, civil or
admi nistrative liabil ities :
A. VIOLATION BY ESTABLISHMENTS. Each establishment is responsible
for the monitoring of gatherings within their areas. Establishments shall
be liable for any violation of the provisions of this Ordinance and shall be
penalized as follows:
a, lst Offense - written warning
b. znd Offense Fine of P5,000 and/or suspension of business
operations for thifi (30) days from date of violation.
c. 3rd Offense - Fine of P5,000 and cancellation of Business Permit
Provided that, establishments without a Business permit shall not be
penalized as above but shall immediately be penalized with a fine of
P5,000 and immediate closure, pending appropriate action.
B. VIOLATION BY EVENT ORGANIZERS.
a. 1st Offense - written warning
b. znd Offense Fine of P5,000 and/or suspension of business
operations for thirty (30) days from date of violation.
c, 3'd Offense - Fine of P5,000 and cancellation of Business Permit
Provided that, event organizers without a Business permit shall not be
penalized as above but shall immediately be penalized with a fine of
P5,000 and shall not be allowed to organize events in Davao City.
C. VIOLATION BY INDIVIDUALS. Individuals found in violation of the
provisions of this Ordinance and other related ordinances shall be
penalized and fined accordingly.
SECTION 12. ORDINANCE VIOLATION RECEIPT/CITATION TICKET. An
ORDINANCE VIOLATION RECEIPT, othenruise known as a CITATION flCKET, shall be
issued to violators of this Ordinance. The citation ticket shall state the name and
address of the violator, the specific violation committed, and the provisions of the
succeeding SECTION, "No Contest Provision."
The Philippine National Police (PNP) and such other appropriate enforcers as may be
commissioned by the City Mayor shall have the power to apprehend violators of this
ordinance and issue citation tickets.
The City Mayor may deputize Barangay Officials or representatives of the private sector,
non-government organizations and government organizations in the strict
implementation of this Ordinance, as the need arises.

.
Ord. No. 0581-21
SECTION 13. NO-CONTEST PROVISION. Any person cited for violation of
this Ordinance who does not wish to contest the same and is willing to pay voluntarily
within three (3) days_the fine imposed under this ordinance prio, to tne filing of i
complaint before the Office of the City Prosecutor shall be allowed to do so, ani shall
paythe corresponding administrative fine as cited in SECTION 11 atthe office of the city
Treasurer. Availment of the no-contest provision shall exempt a person from criminat
liability under this ordinance.
The City Legal Office and the City Treasurer's Offlce shall provide for the procedure for
the availment of the "No-Contest Provision" and establish a case inventory and
recording system of all violators of this ordinance.
All proceeds from the payment of the herein imposed fine shall be appoftioned as
follows:
1. Sixty percent (600/o) of the amount collected per apprehension shall
accrue to the apprehending barangay; and,
2. FortY percent (40o/o) shall accrue to the General Fund of the City.
The share of the barangay shall be remitted directly to the barangay, without need of
any fufther action, on a monthly basis within ten (10) days of the f6llowing month. Said
amount shall be utilized for COVID-19 response and for other matters incidental
thereto.
SECTION 14. SEPARABILITY CLAUSE - If, for any reason, any SECTION or
provision of this Ordinance is declared unconstitutional or invaiid by a competent couft,
the remaining sections or provisions not affected thereby shall continue to be in full
force and effect.
SECTION 15. REPEALING CLAUSE. All ordinances, resolutions, rules or
regulations which are inconsistent with or contrary to the provisions of this Ordinance
are hereby repealed, amended or modified accordingly.
SECTION 5. EFFECTIVITY - This Ordinance shall take effect fifteen (15) days
after publication, and shall remain in full force and effect until the declaration bf tne
existence of a Public Health Emergency of International Concern is retracted by the
Wotld Health Organization, or when the State of Public Health Emergency due to
COVID-l9 in the country is lifted.
ENACTED, May LL, 202L, by a unanimous vote of all the Members of the
Sanggunian, there being a quorum.
CERTIFIED CORRECT:
uttrr%ily*fo,
Secretary to the SANGGUNIANG panlungsod
(City Government Department Head II)

-".%:ar.:
-4aIF,::^
AFr
"ti' >rk"
t-''
t
President
Temporary Presiding Officer
cns/johanna
I
,i
i
r
Ord. No.0581-21
APPROVED:
UAI 27 m
202t
z.
. citt tttaug
ATTESTED:
ATTESTED:
ATTY.
T
City Admini
?
AN ORDINANCE'..REGULATING
PENALTIES THEREbF
GATHERINGS IN THE CITY OF DAVAO AND PROVIDING