\-, Republic of the Philippines,.;
Office of the SanEgumlang Panlungsod
lgth City Counci!
30th Re!ular Session
SERIES of 20Zl
PRESENT:
Councitor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councitor
Councilor
Councilor,
Councilor
Counciloi
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor.
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
ABSENT:
Edgar p. Ibuyan Jr.
Ralph O. Abella
Nilo D. Abellera
Maria Belen S. Acosta
Bai Hundra Cassandra Dominique N. Advincula
Wilberto E. Al-ag
Dante L. Apostol Sr.
Conrado C. Baluran
Jessica M. Bonguyan
Louie John J. Bonguyan
Pilar C. Braga
Augusto Javier G. Campos III
Danilo C. Dayanghirang
Jonard C. Dayap
Edgar R. Ibuyan Sr,
Richlyn N. Justol-Baguilod
Pamela A. Librado-lvlorata
Diosdado Angelo Junior R. Mahipus
Jaffar U. Marohomsalic
Bonifacio E. Militar
Myrna G. LDalodo-Ortiz
i Antoinette G. principe-Castrodes
J. Melchor B. euitain Jr.
lAlberto T. Ungab
iMury Joselle D. Villafuerte
iJesus Joseph p. Zozobrado III
- Temporary presiding Officer
Vice Mayor
Sebastian Z. Duterte
- On Official Business
oRDTNANCE m0. o675_2L
SERIES of Z02l
ORDINANCE REGT' LATING
RECREATIONAL
ES WTTHIN WATERSHED CONSERVATION AREAS
DAvAo clw FOR Ti.tE pR.oTECTION, CONSER.VATION
ERVATIOTU OF THE NATURAI- ETUVIRONMENT
t

Ord. I\0. 0675-21
' ,tie, it,i ordained by the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod of Davao City in session
assembied; that:
it..
.,1i,1.,
SECTION L. SFIORT TITI-E This Ordinance shall be known as the
*WATERSHED CONSERVATION AR,EA PR,OTECTION ORDII{ANCE OF 2021'.
:
SECTION 2. DECTARATION OF POLXCY - It is the policy of the City of Davao
to preserVe, conserve, and protect the natural environment and its natural resources.
Conservation,Areas, being environmentally critical areas, must be safeguarded for the
benefit of future generations.
SECTTCIN:3. DEFIT\IITION OF TER.MS
L. Recreational Activities - refer to activities people do for fun and enjoyment, For
pur.poses of this Ordinance, recreational activities shall refer to trekking or hiking,
mountain biking, running, camping, canoeing, kayaking, rafting, tubing, for
recreational purposes;
2. Watershed Areas - are areas defined under the Watershed Code and its
Implementing Rules And Regulations (IRR) referring to lands within the territorial
jurisdiction of Davao City, in which rainwater drains from a river system to a
common outlet such as dam, lake or the sea. It is an area where the rain from
the highest level of land flows down to a river or stream then the Davao Gulf, or
a rtopographical delineated area of land from which rainwater can drain as
sufface run-off via a specific river or stream system to a common outlet point
which may be a dam, irrigation system or a municipal water supply take-off
point, or where the river or stream discharges water into a larger river, strearn or
lake.
3. Conservation Zone - are the Conseruation Areas defined under the Watershed
Code of the City of Davao as referring to Environmentally Critical Areas in Davao
City consisting of 34,254 hectares (and those other areas stipulated in
Presidential Proclamation 2146 dated December 14, 1981). Conservation Zone
and Consenration Area is used interchangeably in this Ordinance.
4.. Solid waste - refers to all discarded household, commercial waste, nonhazardous
institutional and industrial waste, street sweepings, construction debris,
agricultural waste, and other non-hazardous/non-toxic solid wastes;
5" Private Froperty - refers to property or propefties not owned by the City or any
ment instnumentalities. For purposes of this Ordinance, it shall refers covered by Original Ceftificate of Title, Transfer Certificate of Title,
Ceftificate of Land Ownership Award; and tax-declared alienable and
lands with pending application for titling through administrative or
4" REGIJLATIONS. - Persons found within Conservation Zones of
the w
as of the City for recreational activities or those who intend to enter
the said
n zones for recreational activities shall comply with the following
regu
should be informed of the activity at least seven (7) days prior to
I
I
I
the activity, for information and orientation purposes;

Ord. No. 0675-21.
2. ,Eesionated trails should be strictly followed. Visitors are not allowed to create
irr.ii o*, trails. No one shoutd enter any grass flelds or trample on the flowers;
3. Renioving any kind of plants or flowers or boundary marks/signages 0r any
product derived therefrom is prohibited;
4. Catching of insects and hunting of animals are prohibited;
5. Llnless there is a predetermined designated safe area for open fire cooking,
cooking in any part of the area is prohibited;
6. Visitors to the area must have a list of all items to be brought in the area whlch
will: bd submitted to the barangay serving as point of entry. All items in the list
must be the same items to be brought back upon exit;
7. All traSh must be carried off the area, including vegetable or fruit peelinEs;
8. There;shall be no activities that will pollute the streams and other body of water
in the area, including human excreta disposal, use of soaps and detergents, and
other acts tending to pollute the environment;
9, Iterns:such as alcoholic beverages, permanent markers, paints, spray paints, anct
the like are not allowed within Conservation Zones. These items rnay be
deposited temporarily and returned to the owner after the recreational activity.
In caSe of discovery of illegal drugs and other illegal substances in the
possession of the visitor, the Barangay shall directly repoft the incident to the
nearest police station for proper disposition;
'l
10. Smoking in the area is strictly prohibited;
.i
ll.Visitors must have the proper clothing and footwear for the purpose;
12.Visitors are required to always take important medicines and first aid kits with
them.'Visitors with medications must take their medicines;
13.Creating unnecessary noise is prohibited. Bringing of any sound system that
causes disturbance in the area is not allowed;
14. Bringing in of disposable facemasks is discour:aged unless for health and medical
reasons. Provided that all facemasks shall at all times be strictly accounted for
and exit from the area;
ffi.
r, Single-Use Plastics and other disposable packaging are strictly
within Conservation Zones;
SERIES
of 20
other
that acts in violation of the Watershed Code (Ordinance [\o. 0310-t]7,
Anti- Smoking Ordinance of Davao City (Ordinance No. 036V-L2, SERIES
Liquor Ban Ordinance (Ordinance No. 004-13, SERIES of 2013), The
of Davao CiW (Ordinance No. 0410-18, SERIES of 2018), and all
laws, ordinances, rules and regulations, committed within the
lArea during recreational activities shall be penalized accordingly under
Ordi
and ordinances.

Ord. No. 06V5-2L
SECTION 5. ENESRCET,|ENT - The Barangay watershed Management councii
under the Punong Barangay of the area shall formulate and implement measures in
order to,estdblish a security outpost, provide information of the regulations under this
Ordinance 'prior to the recreational activity, and introduce measures for the striC
enforcement thereof. The Barangay Watershed Management Council or the Punong
Barangay may require a duly designated individual to accompany the visitors during the
visit to ensure compliance of this Ordinance.
The : Barangay Watershed Management Council concerned shali identify
predetermined trails and shall put up necessary signs for the information and safety of
visitors'to,the area. The existing trails and any proposed trails for recreational purposes
inside Conservation Zones shall be submitted to the Watershed Management Council of
the Cityfor,approval.
Any Protest or Non-compliance of SECTION 5 hereof prior to entry to the
Conseruation, Zone shall be recorded and referred to the Barangay Watershed
Management Council for appropriate action. Provided, that no proposed recreationai
activity,ih the said area by the non-compliant visitor shall be permitted.
Subject to the last paragraph of SECTION 4 hereof, non-compliant recreational
activities in Conservation Zones covered by this Ordinance shall be penalized under
SECTION 10 hereof.
SECTION 6. ttON-ENFORCEMENT - Any public official or ernployee who, in
dereliction of duty, intentionally fails to enforce the provisions of this Ordinance shall be
the subject of an administrative investigation and possible liability under existing laws
and issuances.
SECTIOI{ 7. FEES - l-he Barangay exercising jurisdiction over the point of entry
of visitors for recreational purposes in Conservation Zones may enact an Ordinance
levying lawful environmental fees.
SECTION 8. EXEMPTIONS - Recreational activities within private propefties
classified as within Conservation Areas under the Watershed Code is allowed and is not
covered by this Ordinance provided that there shall be no pollution of the natural
environment.
SECTION 9.
TEMPORARY CLOSI.IRES/RESTRICTIONS _. T"S
COFNSERVATION ZONES - Subject to Sec. B hereof, the Watershed Managernent
Council of the City may prohibit entry to, or restrict recreational activities in specified
areas of 'the Conservation Zones covered by this Ordinance, temporarily or for an
indefinitb period of time, for the following reasons:
r:t
D,aq$er to natural fiora and fauna;
REhbbilitation;
Tgpograph ical dangers;
Fflilqfe of the Barangay to implement the provisions of this Ordinance;
Ofheq similar reasons for the preseruation, protection, conservation of the natural
efvir:onmenU
SLUjectlto the last paragraph of SECTION 4 hereof, violations of the prohibitions or
restrictidnllpnoseO under this SECTION shall be penalized under SECTION 10 hereof.
I

Ord. No. 0675-21
.SECTION 10. PENALTIES - Subject to the last paragraph of SECTION 4 and
Sectioni12' hereof, any person r,vho, by act or omission, is found to have violated this
Ordinancershalt be penalized with not more than P5,000.00 and/or imprisonment of not
more than bne (1) month at the discretion of the coufts.
r
I
SE
11. ORDINANCE VIOLATION RECEIPT/CITATI0I.] TIffi - An
VIOLAION RECEIPT, otherwise known as a CITATION ICKET, shall be
issued to. violators of this Ordinance. The Citation Ticket shall state the name and
address of the violator, the specific violation committed, and the provisions of SECTION
12 hereof on the "No Contest Provision".
SECTION 12. NO CONTEST PR.OVtrSION - Any person cited for violation of
this Ordinance who does not wish to contest the citation and is willinE to pay voluntarily
the fine 16,posed upon himlher, or in case of inability to pay the fine, is willing to
voluntarily render community seruice, such person shall be allowed to pay said fine with
the City Treasurer or render community service as settlement for the citation. Any
person who qualifies and successfully avails of the "No Contest Provision" shal{ be
exempted from liability under this Ordinance.
SECTION 13, PROCEDURE IN THE AVAILMENT OF TllE NO CONTEST
PR.OWSION - The person cited for violation of this Ordinance shall be given five (5)
working days from the issuance of the Ordinance Violation Receipt or Citation Ticket
within which to voluntarily pay the fine or to voluntarily render community service.
In case'the violator opts to pay the fine, the fine shall be One l-housand Pesos
(P1,000.00),or othenruise in case of community seruice, the voluntary community
service shall be sixteen (16) working hours. In either case, the offender shall be given
an orientation in relation to this Ordinance.
The violator, who avails of the [\o Contest Provision and opts to pay the fine
imposed, shall secure an Order of Payment from the Office of the City Mayor or the City
ENRQ, as may be authorized by the City Mayor.
All payments of fines shall be to the City Treasurer's Office. After payrnent of the
fine, the person cited for violation of this Ordinance shall present the Official Receipt
issued by the City Treasurer's Office to the City ENRO and a copy thereof shall be
endorsed to the City Legal Office, which shall consider the case closed.
The City Treasurer is hereby authorized to collect the fine under this Ordinance
In rcasE
violator opts to voluntarily render community service, he/she shall
secul€
Office of the City Mayor or the City ENRO, as may be authorized by the
ssigned environmental protection related community service that will be
City
required
lator, including, but not limited to, cleanup activity, greening and tree
planting
solid waste management activity, wastewater managerTlent activity, or
ry Facility (MRF) service"
Materials
completion of the community service, the City Mayor or the City ENRO,
as may
commun
consider
longer;avoil of
Ordinance shall
and endorse a copy thereof to the City Legal Office, which shali
closed
iIf
lator had already availed of the No Contest Provision, he/she can no
same and the Corresponding complaint for the violation of the
rized by the City Mayor, shall issue a certification of completion of
filed against the offender
from
the

RP.
R"
dent
porary Presiding Officer
cns/johanna
0rd. No. 0675-21
SECTION 14. IMPLEMENTIruG R,ULES AND R.EGULATIONS - ThC CitY
Mayor or tsny designated ccmmittee or body duly authorized by the City Mayor rnay
formulate the Implementing Rules and Regulations (IRR) necessary to carry out the
provisions of;this Ordinance.
Provided that, absence of the Implementing Rules and Regulations (IRR) shall
not prevent the effectivity and enforcement of this Ordinance.
SECTION 15. SEPARABILIW CLAUSE - If, for any reason, any SECTION <ir
provision of this Ordinance is declared unconstitutional or invalid, other sections or
provisions hereof not affected by such declaration shall continue to be in full force and
effect.
SECTION 16. REPEALING CLAUSE - All Ordinances, issuances, rules and
regulations or parts thereof inconsistent with the provisions of this Ordinance are
hereby repealed, amended or modified accordinEly.
SECTION 17. EFFECTMTY- The provisions of this Ordinance shall take effect
fifteen (15) days after its publication in at least three (3) newspapers of general
circulation in Davao City.
ENACTED, on the 10th day of August 202L, by a unanimous vote of ali the
Members of the Sanggunian present, there being a quorum.
CERTIFIED COR,R,ECT:
^ Al,trui, r. {r f
cHARrro N. pANTOS
Secretary to the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod
(City Government Department Head IS,
ATTESTED:
T'VAN
'
i
lrE

\''l
Ord. No, 0675-21 ,
Z. DUTERTE
F CiW Mayor y
AFFR,OVED:
,rll
,)t- i
i
rx-x-@
biOit!llyti0ned by
Oute& Srr.
Zimmormnn
Faaton: lam apptovlng
lhisdo(umcnt
ATTESTED;
*,mrrm,roPEz
City Administ{Ator,
ir
:
REGULATING RECREATIONAL ACTIVMES WITHIN WATERSHED CONSERVATIOI\
CITY FOR THE PROTECTION, CONSERVATION, PRESERVATION OF THE NATURAL
,
i.
Af{
ENVIRONMENT

RePublic of the PhiliPPine*-,
Offiee of the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod
19th CiW Counci|
29th Regular Session
SERIES of 202L
PR,ESENT:
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Counciloi
Councilor
iCouncilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Albefto T. Ungab
- Temporary Presiding Officer
Ralph O. Abella
Nilo D. Abellera
Maria Belen S. Acosta
Bai Hundra Cassandra Dominique N. Advincula
Wilberto E. Al-ag
Dante L. Apostol Sr.
Conrado C. Baluran
Jessica M. Bonguyan
Louie John J. Bonguyan
Pilar C. Braga
Augusto Javier G. Campos III
Danilo C. Dayanghirang
lonard C. Dayap
Edgar P. Ibuyan Jr.
Edgar R. Ibuyan Sr.
Richlyn N. Justol-Baguilod
Pamela A. Librado-Morata
Diosdado Angelo Junior R, Mahipus
Jaffar U. Marohomsalic
Myrna G. L'Dalodo-Ortiz
Antoinette G. Principe-Castrodes
l. Melchor B. Quitain Jr.
Mary Joselle D. Villafuefte
Jesus Joseph P. Zozobrado III
ABSENT:
Vice Mayor
Councilor
Sebastian Z. Duterte
Bonifacio E. Militar
- On Leave
- On Sick Leave
RESOLI.|TION NO. 02500-21
SERIES of 202L
NACTING Aru OR.DTNANCE REGULATING R.ECREATIONAL
ES UI'XTHIN T!.IE WATERSFIED - CONSER.VATICIN
REAS OF DAVAO CITY FOR THE PROTECTION,
TUSERVATION AITD PR.ESERVATION OF THE NATIJRAL
ENVIRONMEXUT

Res. No. 02500-21
WHEREAS, SECTION 4 (a), Rule II of the Implementing Rules and Regulations of
Ord. No.i03:10-07, SERIES af 2007, otherwise known as the "Watershed Protection,
Colnservatio:n and Management Ordinance of Davao City" provides that watershed areaS
of Davao City are areas of land, within the territorialjurisdiction of Davao City, on which
rainwater drains from a river system to a common outlet such as dam, lake 0r sea; an
area where rain from the highest level of land flows down to a river or stream then the
Davao Gulf; or a topographical delineated area of land from which rainwater can drain
as surface :run-off via a specific river or stream system to a common outlet point which
may be a:dam, irrigation system or a municipal water supply take-off point or where the
river or,stream discharges water into a large river, stream or lake;
.
li
WIIEREAS, in Davao City, the Talomo-Lipadas Watershed in Toril District
provides the drinking water supply of its people. However, the population of the City is
increasing and the lone watershed cannot suffice the needed water of the people. To
ease that, the adjacent Panigan-Tamugan Watershed in Baguio District has been
selected as the next source of drinking water wherein sudace water from Panigan l?.iver
combining with Tamugan River will be tapped;
WHER.EAS, the protection of these watershed areas has been identified as one
of the mdin'strategies to ensure the effective preseruation of the water quality of our
water bodies through focused interventions designed to specifically address the water
quality;
WHEREAS, in order to protect and manage its natural resources in a proper and
sustainable 'manner, there is a necessity to impose regulations and guidelines for
recreational activities within the watershed conservation areas;
NOW THEREFORE, on motion of Councilor Diosdado Angelo .lunior R. Mahipus,
duly seconded by Councilors Pilar C. Braga, Myrna G. L'Dalodo-Ortiz, Jonard C. Dayap,
Ralph O. Abella, Jessica M. Bonguyan, Bai Hundra Cassandra Dominique N. Advincula,
laffar U. Marohomsalic, Edgar R. Ibuyan Sr., Edgar P. ibuyan Jr., Dante L. Apostol Sr.,
Nilo D. Abellera, Louie John J. Bonguyan and Augusto lavier G. Campos IIi; cosponsored by Councilors Nilo D. Abellera, Pilar C. Braga, Bai Hundra Cassandra
Dominique N. Advincula, Mary Joselle D. Villafuerte, Ralph O. Abella, Jaffar U.
Marohomsalic, Myrna G. L'Dalodo-Ortiz, Edgar R. Ibuyan Sr., Louie John J. Bonguyan,
Conrado C. Baluran, Richlyn N. Justol-Baguilod and Pamela A. Librado-Morata, be it
resolved, as it is hereby resolved, TO ENACT AN ORDINANCE REGULATING
RECREATTONAL ACTIVITIES W[TH[I{ THE WATERSHED . CONSERVATION
AREAS OF DAVAO CITY FOR T!-rE PROTECTION, CONSERVATIOT{ AND
PRESERVATION OF THE NATURAL ENVIRONMET{T;
,i
I
. 'RESOIIVED FURT'HEE{, that copies of this Resolution be furnished the 0ffice of
the pity Mqyor through the City Administrator's Office, the Vice Mayor's Office, the
Department of the Interior and Local Government, Interfacing Developmerrt
Interuenlions for Sustainability, the Department of Environment and Natural ResourcesXI, the. CiW Environment and Natural Resources Office, and all other concernecl
agenciep/depaftments, for their information and guidance;
ADO'PTED' August 03, 202t, by a unanirnous vote of all the Menrlrers r:i'the
Sanggunian,[resent, there being a quorurn.

!t
CER,TIFIED CORRECTI
Res. Nlo. 02500-21
-
c*#ffi.u,,.].#o*
Secretary to the Sangguhiang panlungsocl
(City Government Department Headll)rv
ATTESTED:
T" UNGAE
Acting Vice Mayor
Temporary Presiding Officer
cns/johanna
.l
trl
ll