+'l{o
iE'}t
Ref. No. cAdO-2021-03394
2'd INDORSEMENT
December 1,2021
C
.ilII
Respectfully returned to Ms. Charito N. Santos, Secretary to the Sangquniang
Panlungsod, this City, the within Legal Opinion No. 1141, SERIES of 2021 dated November
17,2O2l of the City Legal Office, relative to $e attached Ordinance No' 0736-21, SERIES
ot 2O2I entitled, "AN ORDINANCE PROVIDING FOR THE GUIDEUNES ON THE SOCIAL
DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS FOR THE PUBUC UNUTY VEHICLE MODERNIZANON
PROJECTS OF DAVAO CITY", for your information and appropriate action.
For the City Mayor:
ATTY. TRISTAN
MINGO
Assistant
*Y
.,lB
r
(Administration)
l rL l
CIW MAYOR,S OFFICE
i.r.ri,iF$Oll0tltG ALD SICORDS OfV
RFI..EASED
TiARIA
/\r.1.'..1'. tTPtTtvE AtDE Vt
OO G/..i.(i
lmtfi.
0rr6arr02
^l/
/
6t-,aLl
Second Floor, City Hall Building, City Hall Drive, San Pedro St., Davao City
(082)224-3004 o (082) 241-'l0OO loc. 265 ' davaocitymayor@gmail.com
Bd\v,.@
(;t5
OFFICE OF THE CITY IVIAYOR
t)Ec 02
q?-
LIFE IS HERE

rlt?q- li?
Ref. No. CLO-2021-3026
LEGAL OPINION NO.
SERIES OF 2O2L
l.t INDORSEMENT
November 17,2021
Respectfnlly foruarded to the Office of the City Mayor, through the Office
of the City Administrator, both this City, the subject ordinance, informing your
end that this office finds the enactment of the ordinance free from legal infirmity,
citing SECTION 16 of Republic Act 7160, otherwise known as the Local
Government Code of 1991, to wit:
SECTIOII 76, General Welfarc, - tuery local government
unit shall exercise the powerc expressly granted, those necessarily
implied there from, as well as powes necessary, appropriate, or
incidental for its efficient and etrective oovernance. and those
which are exntial to the oromotion of the oeneral welfare. Wthin
their respective teritoial jurisdictiont local governmeht unib shall
ensure and suppot among other things, the preseruation and
enrichment of culture, prcmote health and safety, enhance the
right of the people to a balanced ecology, encourage and suppott
the development of appropn:ate and self-reliant scientific and
technological capabilitiet improve public moralq enhance
economic prosryity and social justice, promote full employrnent
among their residenb, maintain peace and order, and pre*rue
the comfort and convenience of their inhabitanb. (Emphasis ours)
VIEWED FROM THE FOREGOING, this office recommends the approval of
the subject ordinance.
RESPECTFULLY SUBMITTED.
ATTY. OSMUN
P. VIILANUEVA, TR
Asst. City Legal Officer
Officer-In-Charged
Date ofapproval: November 17,2021
OFiEE O' NE ET' M|BM
trYlurtm
mraglt
OFFICE OF THE CITY LEGAL OFFI
Tel. No. 298-6970
Trunk Une No. 241-1000 Lor.267*225*230
clo@davaocity.gov. ph
_il!
0lvt5t0N
co*) ,
,ffi,
D
R
i,4
CIrv VAYoR
0rflct
cMo coa{rAcl:
25t265, 09955199702
w\-
q
illrr
ORDINANCE NO. 0736-21, SERIES ol 2O2l entitled 'AN
OR.DINANCE PROVIDING FOR THE GUIDELIT{ES OT{
THE SOCIAT DEVETOPMENT PROGRAMS FOR THE
PUBTIC UTILITY VEHICLE MODERT{IZATION
PROIECTS OF DAVAO CITY"
FA
lA
@ATE
NO\I I0:2,t'
dJ
J

sa ii3 ro
2;
SARA Z. DUTERTE
City Mayor
O
November 12,2021
lllxZl-lla
cMo - c8D
RECEIV FD
I
^ Clurvfi \ {N'
CHARITO']I.SAN?OS
Secretary to the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod
(City Government Department Head II)
0t/ -l 2
u:10
Madam:
Pursuant to Sub-SECTION 3, Paragraph C, SECTION 469, Article One, Title Five,
Chapter 3, Book III and SECTION 54 of Book I of Republic Act No. 7160, otherwise
known as the Local Government Code of 1991, we are furnishing you a copy of
Resolution No. oilZie}t and Ordinance No. 07364, both Serles of 2021 of the
SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod, City of Davao, entitled "AN ORDINANCE PROVIDING
!OP.:TflE GI-IIDELITIIES O]t! THF SOCLA!. DEVELOPUEilT PP.OGP-A.I.I,!S FOF. THE
PUBLIC UTILITY VEHICLE MODERNIZATION PRO'ECTS OF DAVAO CITY" fOT
your information, guidance and appropriate action.
Very truly yours,
t{,
i

19ul City Council
38h Regular Session
SERIES of 2021
PRESENT:
ABSENT:
Vice Mayor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Sebastian Z. Dutefte
Nilo D. Abellera
Danilo C.Dayanghirang
Richlyn N. Justol-Baguilod
Pamela A. Librado-Morata
- Temporary Presiding Officer
- OB- Acting City Mayor
- On Sick Leave
- On Sick Leave
- On Maternity Leave
- On Domestic Emergency Leave
Alberto T. Ungab
Ralph O. Abella
Maria Belen S. Acosta
Bai Hundra Cassandra Dominique N. Advincula
Wilberto E. Al-ag
Dante L. Apostol Sr.
Conrado C. Baluran
Jessica M. Bonguyan
Louie John J. Bonguyan
Pilar C. Braga
Augusto Javier G. Campos UI
Jonard C. Dayap
Edgar P. Ibuyan Jr.
Edgar R. Ibuyan Sr.
Diosdado Angelo Junior R. Mahipus
Jaffar U. Marohomsalic
Bonifacio E. Militar
Myrna G. L'Dalodo-Ortiz
Antoinette G. Principe-Castrodes
J. Melchor B. Quitain lr.
Mary Joselle D. Villafuefte
Jesus Joseph P. Zozobrado III
ORDINANCE NO.0736.21
SERIES of 2021
v
AN ORDINANCE PROVIDING FOR THE GUIDELINES ON THE SOCIAL
DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS FOR THE PUBUC UTILITY VEHICT'
MODERNIZATION PROJECTS OF DAVAO CITY
'
Councilor
Councilor
Councllor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
I

Ord. No. 0736-21
Be it ordained by the Honorable SANGGUNIANG panlungsod of Davao city, in session
assembled, that:
sEcrIoN 1. TITLE. This ordinance shall be known as "AN ORDINANCE pRovIDING
FORTHE GUIDELINES ON THE SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS FORTHE PUBLIC UTILITY
VEHICLE MODERNIZATION PROJECTS OF DAVAO CITY".
SECTION 2. DECLARATION OF POLICY. In the discharge of its function to deliver
efficient and effective provision of basic services and facilities, the City shall provide an
adequate and modern transpoftation to its people.
To improve the quality of life of the residents in relation to the city's promotion of its
"Life is Here." campaign, it is the declared policy of the city of Davao to modernize, establish
and maintain a safe, reliable, and efficient public transport system through the
implementation of the PUV Modernization projects.
The city shall promote and improve the social and economic well-being of its people
who will be affected in the implementation of this government project. It shali develop skills
and capabilities to make them more responsive to their needs and become self-reliant.
The city shall endeavor to provide those affected persons with appropriate
compensation, equitable opportunities to continue to be paft of the transportation sector or
effectively transition to new forms of livelihood.
sEcrIoN 3. DEFINITIoN oF TERMS - As used in this ordinance, the following
terms are defined as follows:
a. Allied Workers - refer to any person legitimately working within the
transportation sector who provides a range of technical or support services therein,
such as, but not limited to; transport cooperative office workers, garage keepers, and
other similar transportation sector workers. For purposes of coverage of this
Ordinance, the City Government of Davao, together with other government agencies,
shall adopt appropriate guidelines in classifying Allied workers who may be qualified
to any of the social Development Programs for the public Utility Vehicle Modernization
Projects of Davao City.
b. Applicant Beneficiaries - refer to eligible members of the main applicant,s
household. The main applicant must either be the (a) Operator; b) Operator/Driver;
(c) Driver or (d) Allied Worker.
c' Blacklisting - refers to the process by which the LTo disallows the registration
and consequent use of unsuitable engines and chassis.
d. CSWDO - refers to the City Social Welfare and Development Office.
e. CTTMO - refers to the City Transport and Traffic Management Office.
f. DOTr - refers to the Department of Transportation.
g. Driver - refers to the person driving a public utility vehicle for economic purpose,
as an employee, by lease or any arrangement.
h' Dropping of unit - refers to the process by which the Land rransportation
Franchising and Regulatory Board (LTFRB) cancels the permit of an old pUV unit.

Ord. No. 0736-2L
i. HPBS - refers to the High Priority Bus System,
j. Interim Scrapping Facility - refers to existing facilities accredited by the DOTr
that shall function as scrapping facilities with the capacity to dismantle old pUVs.
k. LTFRB - refers to the Land Transportation Franchising and Regulatory Board.
l. LTO - refers to Land Transportation Office.
m. Old PUV units - refer to PUV units which already reached the mandatory age
limit as prescribed by existing DOTr and LTFRB issuances, or pUV units which did not
pass the road worthiness test.
n. Operator - refers to the owner of a Public Utility Vehicle (pUV) operating within
Davao City under an approved and active franchise issued by the LTFRB, including
those that are covered under provisional authority.
p. Public Utility Vehicle (PUV) - refers to vehicles that carry passengers, offering
services to the public for a fee, and with valid franchise permit issued by the LTFRB.
For purposes of this Ordinance, PUVS are limited only to Public Utility Jeepneys
(PUJs), vans and buses with public transport routes within Davao City. provided
further, that similar vehicles servicing the Panabo-Davao City and vice-versa route
may be included. Provided finally that, taxis and similar public conveyances are
excluded. In addition, and as far as practicable, motorized and non-motorized
tricycles, and similar public conveyances may also be included.
q. Regional Secretariat - refers to the committee by the DOTr which is composed
of representatives from Region XI Land Transpoftation Franchising and Regulatory
Board (LTFRB), the Land Transportation Office (LTO), the Department ofTrade and
Industry (Dn) and the Depaftment of Environment and Natural Resources (DENR)
which oversee the accreditation of interim scrapping facilities, facilitate cancellation
of permits, and blacklisting of old PUV units for scrapping.
r. Scrapping Certificate - refers to the document issued by the Scrapping Facility
to the operator stating that the old PUV unit/s was/were already disposed of,
s. Scrapping Program - refers to the program under this Ordinance whereby an
old PUV unit is discarded, removed from service, dismantled or scrapped.
t. Social Development Program - refers to the government assistance, financial
or othenrrrise, to be provided to the operators, drivers and allied workers and/or their
families who will be affected by the implementation of the puv Modernization projects
in the City.
SECTION 4. COVERAGE - The Ordinance shall apply to all operators, operatordrivers, drivers, allied workers and/or their families who are engaged in legitimate local public
transportation service and who will be affected by the implementation of the pUV
Modernization Projects, and subject to eligibility requirements set forth under this Ordinance
or as maybe determined by the Social Development Committee herein created.
o. Operator-Driver - refers to the owner of a PUV operating within Davao City
under approved and active franchise issued by the LTFRB or any appropriate
government entity, including those under provisional authority, who at the same tine
is driving his/her PUV.

ARTICLE II
Social Preparation
SECTION 5. SOCIAL PREPARATION - In addition to the provision of this
ordinance, the modernization and scrappage programs of PUVs in the city of Davao shall be
covered by appropriate orders issued by DOTr, LTFRB and other government agencies. DOTr
and/or the LTFRB shall issue appropriate orders officially commencing the modernization and
scrappage programs of all PUVs in the City. Accordingly, affected persons of the programsl
who desire to avail of any assistance under the social development programs of this
Ordinance, must participate in the social preparation activities and must register with the
CSWDO.
For this purpose, the City Government of Davao, together with other agencies, shall
provide comprehensive activities designed to help the people who will be affected socially
and economically in the implementation of the PUV Modernization Projects in the City.
SECTION 6. ACTIVITIES TO BE PARTICIP TED PRIOR TO AVAILING THE
PROGRAMS -The operator, operator-driver, driver, and allied workers must participate prior
to availing of any assistance under this Ordinance on the following social preparation activities
conducted by the Social Development Committee, to wit:
I.
Social Preparation Activities
a) Consultation Dialogue;
b) Gender Sensitivity Training; and
c) Life Skills Development, such as:
i.
FinancialLiteracy/EntrepreneurialMind-Setting;and,
ii.
Personality Development
II.
Employment Facilitatlon and Advisory Services
a) Career Counselling
b) Job Matching and Placement/Skills Mapping
Ord. No. 0736-21
SECTION 7. RELEVANT PERIOD FOR ELIGIBILITY AND TIMELINE FOR THE
PROVISION OF ASSISTANCE - To avail the assistance under the social development
programs of this Ordinance, persons affected by the implementation of any PUV
modernization projects must submit an official application on or before the deadlines that the
Social Development Committee may identify. In no case however, shall an application for
eligibility be made or allowed later than January l, 2023 or the year beginning the full
operation of the HPBS. The applicant must have provided a minimum of continuous six (6)
months of service to the PUV sector to which he/she may belong prior to the submission of
his/her application to be eligible for assistance.
Once the PUV Modernization Projects application is granted, assistance agreements will
be provided to the applicant. These agreements will outline financial assistance, non-financial
assistance and/or scrapping program details to be provided to the applicant and its relevant
beneficiary/ies. Upon receipt of the agreements, the applicant must register his/her
acceptance of the agreements with the CSWDO within thirty (30) days.
As per Article V of this Ordinance, an applicant will have 30 days to submit any grievance
related to the PUV Modernization Projects assistance agreements. Grievances related to the
agreement received beyond thifty (30) days will no longer be accepted.

Ord, No. 0736-2t
An applicant can register to receive non-financial assistance and remain providing
service as an operator, operator-driver, driver and allied worker at no penalty.
To receive financial assistance, the operator, operator-driver, driver and allied worker
must demonstrate a minimum of six (6) months continuous service as provided in SECTION 8,
Afticle III of this Ordinance.
Any affected person can only submit one application to avail of any social development
program under this Ordinance.
ARTICLE TII
Socia! Development Assistance
SECTION 8. FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE - Financiat assistance shall be given
resulting from the implementation of the PUV Modernization projects in the City,
a) Operator - An amount of not less than One Hundred Thousand pesos
(P100,000.00) shall be given to the operator for every covered pUV, provided that,
it is in good running condition and used as a pUV for at least six (6) months
reckoned from the date of disenfranchisement of the affected PUV. Each PUV must
be covered by a valid and existing Certificate of Publlc Convenience as certified by
the LTFRB, Operators availing of this assistance shall pafticipate in the scrapping
program under Article IV of this Ordinance.
b) Operator-Driver - An amount of not less than One Hundred Eighty Thousand
Pesos (P180,000.00) shall be given to an operator-driver, provided that the pUV
he/she operates and drives is in good running condition and continuously operated
as such by him/her for the preceding six (6) months reckoned from the date of
disenfranchisement of the affected PUV. Operator-drivers availing of this assistance
shall participate in the scrapping program under Article IV of this Ordinance.
c) Driver - An amount of not less than Eighty Thousand Pesos (p80,000.00) shall
be given to the driver, provided that, he/she has been driving the pUV for at least
six (6) months reckoned from the date of disenfranchisement of the affected pUV,
provided further that, he/she must be included in the record of the CTTMO as a
PUV driver or as certified by appropriate government agencies. Should there be
more than one (1) driver for one PUV, the financial assistance shall be divided
among them proportionately.
d) Allied Workers or any person, other than those enumerated above, but who are
found to be directly or indirectly affected by the implementation of the pUV
Modernization Projects, shall be given appropriate assistance or social development
programs upon determination and approval of the Social Development Committee.
In order to avail of any government assistance or social development programs, the
operator, operator-driver, driver, or allied worker must comply accordingly with the
documentary requirements set forth in this ordinance or as may be further required by
appropriate government authority. The determination and approval of an application for
financial assistance under this SECTION shall be subject to the determination and approval of
the Social Development Committee.

Ord. No. 0736-21
SECTION 9
DOCUMENTARY
REo
IREMENTS
R THE GR NT OF
FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE UNDER THIS ORDINANCE.
be submitted to the Social Development Committee to avai
this Ordinance:
L
For Operators and Operator-drivers:
The following requirements must
I of the financial assistance under
a) PUV Modernization Projects Application Form;
b) Certificate of Public Convenience;
c) If the applicant is not the franchise holder, he or she shall submit proof of
ownership such as Deed of Sale, Deed of Donation or any related document;
d) Sworn list of driver/s;
e) Clearance duly issued by the LTFRB;
Q Certificate of Roadworthiness issued by LTO or Certificate of Scrappage
issued by the local accredited interim scrapping facility;
g) Ceftificate of Attendance to Trainings duly issued by the CSWDO; and
h) For operator-drivers, a valid driver's license and Certificate of Eligibility
issued by CTTMO, or by an appropriate government agency, shall also be
required.
a) PUV Modernization Projects Application Form;
b) Valid driver's license;
c) Ceftificate of Eligibility issued by the CTTIv'!O, or by an appropriate
government agency.
III. For Allied Workers:
PUV Modernization Projects Application Form;
Proofs of employment to a transportation company; and
Any appropriate additional documents that the Social Development
Committee may require.
IV
For the chosen relative up the 4h civil degree by consanguinity or affinity:
a) PUV Modernization Projects Application Form; and
b) Proof of family relationship, such as a Certificate of Birth or a Certificate of
Marriage, or other related documents.
sEcrIoN 10. NON-FINANCTAL AssIsrANcE. subject to applicable rules and
regulations, the operator, operatordriver, driver, allied worker or any of their chosen relative
up to the 4th civil degree by consanguinity or affinity, may apply for a non-financial assistance
under this Ordinance. The non-financial assistance shall include, but not limited to, the
following: educational, employment and/or enterprise assistance.
SECTION 11. DOCUMENTARY REOUIREMENTS FOR NON-FINANCIAL
AssIsrANcE. For purposes of availing the non-financial and in addition to the puV
Modernization Application Form, the specific documentary requirements set forth by each of
the government agencies extending such assistance must be submitted. The requirements
are the following:
a)
b)
c)
II.
For Drivers:

Page 7 of 11 ,
Ord. No. 0736-27
I.
Commission on Higher Education (CHED) Tulong Dunong program:
Duly accomplished CHED - Tulong Dunong Program Application Form;
Proof of Enrollment;
Certiflcate of Indigency from the CSWDO;
Ceftified True Copy of Birth Certificate or Marriage Certificate, if married;
Photocopy of School ID.
Department of Trade and Industry-Displaced Drivers Operators Livelihood
Restoration Program
a) High Priority Bus System Social Development Package Application Form
b) Form 1: DTl-Assisted MSMEs - Profile
c) Attendance that the beneficiary has attended the Basic Business
Management Training
d) Certificate of Completion.
III.
Department of Labor and Employment -Tulong panghanapbuhay sa Ating
Displaced/Disadvantaged Workers (TUPAD) Program
High Priority Bus System Social Development Package Application Form
Daily Time Record
Intake Sheet
Accomplishment Report
Barangay Certificate indicating that he or she is underemployed/unemployed
Personal Data Sheet
Government-issued ID
ry. TESDA Scholarship
a) Duly accomplished Application Form or TESDA Learner's Form;
b) Properly and completely filled-out Self-Assessment Guide of chosen
qualification;
c) Three (3) pieces of colored and passport size picture, with white
background, with collar and with name printed at the back.
Note: Requirements may vary based on the implementing TESDA Training
Institution and the preferred course of the beneficiary.
For purposes of this Ordinance, any assistance that may be offered in the future
by the government agencies above-mentioned shall be considered as social development
assistance for the displaced PUV operators, operator-drivers, drivers, and allied workers.
Fufther, any assistance offered by other government agencies may be included in the
preceding list and shall be included in the social development programs of this Ordinance,
upon determination and approval of the Social Development Committee,
sEcrroN 12. DUw oF THE oPERAToR. - The operator must inform the social
Development Committee of any change/s in the list of drivers and allied workers he/she has
submitted. Non-compliance with this SECTION may be a ground for the disqualification of the
operator, drivers and allied workers from availing or receiving any of the assistance under
this Ordinance.
a)
b)
c)
d)
e)
II
a)
b)
c)
d)
e)
f)
e)

Ord. No. 0736-21
sEcrIoN 13. - PUBLICATToN, TD promote transparency, the list of the qualified
beneficiar'res shall be posted in city Hall, LTFRB, crrMo or any two conspicuous places for a
period of ftfteen (15) days. The implementation of the social development programs shall be
announced on the radio, W program and official Facebook of social media accounts of the
City Government of Davao, LTFRB Region XI or the Davao City HpBS.
ARTICLE IV
Scrapping Program
SECTION 14. ENFO
CEMENT OF S RAPPING PR
GRAM - The enforcement
and implementation of scrappage and dismanUing of puV units shall be undertaken in any
local accredited interim scrapping facility as may be established under LTO and LTFRB Joint
Memorandum circular No. 001, SERIES of 2021. However, prior to the scrapping of old pUV
vehicles, the unit must be dropped, cancelled, and blacklisted
SECTION 15. PROCEDURES PRIORTO SCRAPPING OF OLD PUV UNITS.
To properly effect the scrapping of old puv units, the following measures must frrst be
followed:
a) It is required that the old unlt must be officially dropped from public seryice.
b) The operator of Cooperative/Corporation must, therefore, file a petition for
Dropping of Unit and surrender the "for hire,, plates with the LTFRB Regional
Office XI.
c) Upon approval ofthe petition, the operator, corporation or cooperative shall furnish
LTo Regional office XI a copy of the order of Dropping, together with the Letter
of Intent, which includes the list of units for the immediate sgapping. The said list
for immediate scrapping shall include the chassis and engine numberbf the vehicles
and the name of the chosen interim scrapping facility as furnished by LTFRB XI.
Further, the original certificate of Registration shall be surrendered to the LTo,
sEcrIoN 16. Upon completion of the dismantling/scrapping process, the scrapping
facility shall issue a Certificate of Scrapping to the operator or cooperative/corporation. Such
certificate shall be submitted to the Social Development Committee, A copy shall likewise be
provided to LTFRB Region XI.
sEcrIoN 17. The operator, cooperative, or corporation of the scrapped units shall
be paid of the appraised value of the scrapped unit by the accredited scrapping facility.
sEcrIoN 18. In the event that the operator, including those who do not want to
avail of any of the social development programs under this Ordinance and/or refuses to scrap
an old PUV unit, but instead opt to reclassiff and use the said unit as a private vehicle, the
unit will be subjected to a roadwofthiness test through the accredited Motor Vehicle
Inspection Centers (MVIC). Units that will not pass the MVIC test will not be allowed to be
reclassified as a private vehicle and henceforth, be required to be scrapped, with its chassis
and engine number blacklisted from the Land Transportation Office database pursuant to
LTO-LTFRB Joint Memorandum Circular No. 001, SERIES of 2021.
ARTICLE V
Complaints and Grievances
sEcrIoN 19. coMpLArNTs - Any person may question the qualification of the
beneficiary within thirty (30) days after the publication of the list of qualified beneficiaries to
the Grievance Committee who has exclusive authority to hear and resolve all complaints.

SECTION 20. GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE - There shall be created a grievance
committee tasked to hear, settle and decide issues pertaining to the eligibility of an applicant
for any of the assistance provided herein or any other issues relating to the implementation
of this Ordinance.
The Grievance Committee shall be composed of the following offices to be
represented by its department head or highest-ranking officer or their duly authorized
representatives, to wit:
a) City Legal Office - Chairperson
b) CSWDO - Member; and,
c) CfiMO - Member
SECTION 21. PROCEDURE - The Grievance Committee shall formulate its own
rules of procedure to insure speedy disposition of complaints.
SECTION 22. RESOLUTION - All complaints shall be resolved within sixty (60) days
from the filing thereof, provided that, in no case shall the pendency of such resolution delay
the implementation of the PUV Modernization Projects in the City of Davao.
ARTICLE VI
Prescription, Disqualification and Fofeiture
SECTION 23. PRESCRIPTION - To avail of the financial assistance under this
Ordinance, the application must be submitted to the Social Development Committee within
six (6) months reckoned from the date of disenfranchisement of the affected PUV, pursuant
to the approved schedule of the implementation plans of the PUV Modernization Projects in
the City,
Applicants for non-flnancial assistance under this Ordinance must submit their
application on or before the specific dates to be set by the Social Development Committee.
Failure to submit an application for any of the assistance package within the
aforesaid periods shall constitute as waiver to avail of any and all assistance provided or
pursuant to the PUV Modernization Projects in Davao City.
SECTION 24. DISOUALIFICATION AND FORFEITURE - Any wilful and untruthful
statement, concealment, or falsification made by the applicant PUV operator, operator-driver,
driver or allied worker is a ground for disqualification and forfeiture to avail of any social
development programs under this Ordinance.
SECTION 25. CREATION OF SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE -There is
Page 9 ofJl
Ord, No. 0736-21
ARTICTE VII
Socia! Development Committee
hereby created a social Development committee composed of the following offices to be
represented by its department head or highest-ranking officer or their duly authorized
representatives:

City Mayor or her duly authorized
representative
Vice-Chairperson
City Social Welfare and Development Office
Members
Presidential Commission for the Urban Poor
City Legal Office
Department of Transportation
Land Transportation Franchising and
Regulatory Board -XI
Land Transportation Office XI
SP Committee on Social Services
SP Committee on Transportation and
Communications
SECTION 26. POWERS AND FUNCTIONS -The Social Development Committee
shall perform the following functions:
b) To formulate policies and measures that are necessary to effectively resolve any
issue involving the implementation of this Ordinance;
c) To accept, review and evaluate the application to avail of the programs under this
Ordinance;
d) To act on the resolutions made by the Grievance Committee brought before it on
issues involving the eligibility of the applicant and on issues pertaining to the
implementation of this Ordinance;
e) To facilitate the conduct of social preparation, training, intervention or assistance
to persons directly affected by the implementation of the PUV Modernization
Projects in the City; and,
f) To exercise such other powers and functions as may be necessary or incidental to
attain the objectives of this Ordinance.
ARTICLE VIII
Final Provisions
SECTION 27. FUNDING - The amount necessary to carry out the provisions of this
Ordinance shall be charged from appropriations specific for the purpose of from any
government funds available, subject to government accounting and auditing laws, rules and
regulations.
SECTION 28. RULES AND REGULATIONS - The Social Development Committee
shall promulgate rules and regulations for the effective implementation of this Ordinance.
such rules and regulations shall take effect within fifteen (15) days upon approval of the city
Mayor,
SECTION 29. SEPARABITITY CLAUSE - If, any provision of this Ordinance is
declared invalid or unconstitutional, the remaining provisions not affected thereby shall
continue in full force and effect.
Page 10 of J.l
Ord, No. 0736-2t
Chairpercon
City Transport and Traffic Management
Office
a) To formulate policies and measures that are appropriate for the immediate
release of the assistance;

Ord, No. 0736-21
sEcrIoN 30. EFFECTTVITY - This ordinance shall take effect within fifteen (15)
days after completion of its publication in a newspaper of general circulation for at least two
(2) weeks in the City of Davao.
ENACTED, on the 5th day of october 202L, by a unanimous vote of all the Members
of the Sanggunian, there being a quorum.
CERTIFIED CORRECT:
c*oW"t\k6s
Secretary to the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod
(City Government Department Head I{J.-
ATTESTED:
. UNGAB
Acting Vice Mayor
Temporary Presiding Officer
cns/ray
APPROVED:
NOV I I ZoZl
z.
ERTE
202L
ATTY.
LEIKA T.
PEZ
City Admini
r,
AN ORDINANCE PROVIDING FOR THE GUIDEUNES ON THE SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS FOR THE
PUEUC UTIUTY VEHICLE MODERNIZANON PROJECTS OF DAVAO CITY
ATTESTED:
acittl,,tavp