nepubtrc of the Philippines
19th City Council
18th Regular Session
SERIES of 202L
PRESENT:
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Edgar P, Ibuyan Jr.
Ralph O. Abella
Nilo D. Abellera
Maria Belen S. Acosta
Bai Hundra Cassandra Dominique N. Advincula
Wilbefto E. Al-ag
Dante L. Apostol Sr.
Conrado C. Baluran
Jessica M. Bonguyan
Louie John J. Bonguyan
Pilar C. Braga
Augusto Javier G. Campos III
Danilo C. Dayanghirang
Jonard C. Dayap
Edgar R. Ibuyan Sr.
Richlyn N. Justol-Baguilod
Pamela A. Librado-Morata
Diosdado Angelo Junior R. Mahipus
Jaffar U. Marohomsalic
Bonifacio E. Militar
Myrna G. L'Dalodo-Ortiz
Antoinette G. Principe-Castrodes
l. Melchor B. Quitain Jr.
Albefto T. Ungab
Mary Joselle D. Villafuerte
Jesus Joseph P. Zozobrado III
- Temporary Presiding Officer
ABSENT:
Vice Mayor Sebastian Z. Dutefte
- On Official Business
ORDINANCE NO. 0584.21
SERIES of 2O21.
AN ORDINANCE ALLOWING THE OPERATION OF MOTORCYCLE
TA)GS IN DAVAO CITY

Ord. No. 0584-21
Be it ordained by the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod of Davao City in session assembled,
that
SECTION 1. TITTE - This Ordinance shall be known and cited as "AN
ORDINANCE ALLOWING THE OPERATION OF MOTORCYCLE TAXIS IN DAVAO
crw."
It shall be known by its short title "The Motorcycle Taxi Ordinance of 2021"
SECTION 2. DECI-ARATION OF POUCY - SECTION 16 of Republic Act No. 7t60,
otherwise known as the Local Government Code of 1991, provides that every local
government unit shall exercise the powers expressly granted, those necessarily implied
therefrom, as well as powers necessary, appropriate, or incidental for its efficient and
effective governance, and those which are essential to the promotion of the general welfare;
Subparagraph (a) of SECTION 17 thereof also provides that local government units shall
likewise exercise such other powers and discharge such other functions and responsibilities
as are necessary, appropriate, or incidental to efficient and effective provision of the basic
seruices and facilities enumerated under the Local Government Code;
SECTION 3. DEFINITION OF TERMS AND CONSTRUCTION OF PHRASES
a. Motorcycle Taxi shall refer to a single motorcycle, which is being used to ferry
passengers from one place to another for a fee.
b. Motorcyle Taxi Operator shall refer to the owner of the motorcycle taxi.
c. Motorcycle Taxi Driver shall refer to the person who actually drives a Motorrycle
Taxi,
d. Route shall refer to a designated point of beginning and point of destinations, or
vice-versa.
e. Certificate of Registration shall mean the Ceftificate of Registration issued by the
Land Transpoftation Office (LTO).
f. Current Registration Official receipt shall refer to the current O.R. issued by the
Land Transpoftation Office (LTO).
All other terms and phrases shall be interpreted and construed in their literal meaning.
SECTION 4. REGULATED ACTS
a) No person shall operate and drive a Motorcycle Taxi within the territorial
jurisdiction of Davao City unless the following conditions are concurred:
. Current LTO Registration and O.R. of the Motorcycle Taxi unit;
. Current driver's license of the driver; and
. Payment of annual license fee to the City Treasurer's Office in the amount
of Five Hundred Pesos (P500.00), exclusive of other regulatory fees and
charges, provided that an operator/driver who registers in the first six
months following the implementation of this Ordinance shall not be
collected with a license fee for the year.
. Covered with the necessary insurance that secures the driver and the
passengers in case of injuries or death, There must be:
(

I
o
o
Ord. No. 0584-21
o Compulsory Third Party Liability (C[PL) Insurance;
o Passenger's Common Carrier Insurance;
o Other insurance which may be prescribed by the implementing
agency as necessary under the circumstances;
Protective Motor Helmets for riders and passengers prescribed under
SECTION 3 of R.A 10054 (An Act Mandating All Motorcycle Riderc to
Wear Standard Protective Motorcycle Helmets While Driving and
Providing Penalties Therefor)
There must be a color-coded helmet depending on the route which will be
determined by the City Transport Traffic Management Office (CTTMO).
b) Notwithstanding the issuance of the operator's license, no person 9 years old or
below shall be allowed to ride as passenger in any motorcycle taxi. In case of
persons more than 9 years of age but below 15 years, they shall only be allowed
to ride when accompanied by a parent or guardian.
c) Motorcycle taxi shall be allowed to operate in points where there are other available
and adequate modes of transpoftation. They shall only be allowed in ceftain routes
as may established by the Office of the City Mayor in coordination with the
deputized traffic police. They shall not ply roads which are not part of their
established routes except for emergency reasons, during its refuel, change oil, shop
examinations and other similar cause.
SECTION 5. IMPLEMENTING OFFICE. The City Transport and Traffic Management
Office (CTTMO) shall have jurisdiction to regulate the operation of motorcycle taxis within
the City. The CTTMO is empowered to promulgate the necessary rules and regulations for
the implementation of this Ordinance. Fufthermore, additional conditions and guidelines may
be imposed by the CTTMO with the end goal of effectively regulating motorcycle taxis in the
City. It shall also be the responsibility of the CTTMO to coordinate with the appropriate
national agencies to ensure seamless and orderly operation of motorcycle taxis in the City.
The Motorcycle Taxi Franchising and Regulatory Committee (MTFRC) is hereby created
under the CTTMO. It is a special body composed of five (5) members:
The City Mayor, Chairman;
CTTMO Head, Executive Director;
Chairman of the Committee on Transpoftation of the City Council; and,
Two representatives from the motorcycle taxi drivers.
1.
2.
3.
4.
The Committee shall have the following functions and responsibilities with respect to the
regulation of motorrycle taxis:
a) Provide advice and policy directions, including mediation;
b) Act on complaints and conduct hearings on matters referred to it by concerned
citizens, CTTMO and CTTMB;
c) Review and approve the plans and programs in the implementation and
enforcement that may hereafter be drawn or prepared for the operations of
motorcycle taxis;
d) Refer and recommend issues, measures, and concerns to the CTTMB whenever
necessary;
e) Coordinate with drivers' associations in order to ensure that matters of
operation (i.e. which lane to pass through) shall be properly implemented and
disseminated.

Ord. No. 0584-21
The drivers are encouraged to organize associations in order to have a more systematic
and inclusive administration regarding motorcycle taxi operations.
SECTION 6. PENALTIES.
1. The administrative penalties under SECTION 28 of Ordinance No. 0410-10, SERIES
of 2010 or the "Tricycle For Hire Code of Davao City" shall also apply to
motorcycle taxis insofar as it is not modified by this Ordinance;
2. Any person who operates or drives a motorcycle taxi without prior registration
shall be fined Php500.00 for each offense;
3. Any person shall be penalized with a flne of Php300.00 for the first offense
and an additional Php100.00 for subsequent offenses for:
a. Allowing a minor 9 years old and below as passenger; or
b. Allowing a minor more than 9 years of age but below 15 years as
passengers if not accompanied by a parent or guardian; or
c. Hailing passengers outside their established routes; or
These penalties shall be imposed upon the driver. In case the operators are found
to have consented to the commission of the violation, the same amount of flne shall be
imposed upon him. Three consecutive violations for any offense under this Ordinance for
a period of two (2) months shall be a sufficient ground to revoke the operator's license.
Non-payment of the fine herein imposed for every violation within a period of one
(1) week from apprehension shall also be a ground for the revocation of the operator's
license.
In case of such non-payment of the administrative penalties herein provided, a
criminal case shall be filed and processed against the violator. The criminal penalty shall
be a fine of Two Thousand Five Hundred Pesos (P2,500.00).
sEcTIoN7.rc.Anyandallprovisionsofexistingordinances,
which appear to be inconsistent herewith, are deemed modified or repealed.
SECTION 8. EFFECTMW - This Ordinance shall take effect immediately fifteen
(15) days following its publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the City of
Davao.
ENACTED, May Ll, 2021, by a unanimous votes of all the Members of the
Sanggunian, there being a quorum.
CERTIFIED CORRECT:
^ dlaunl lt {,".
CHARITO N. SANTOS
Secretary to the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod
(City Government Depaftment Head II)
r

E
t
Page
Ord.
JIJL 1 2 2021
5of5
No. 0584-21
t
ATTESTED:
President
Temporary
cns/ray
APPROVE
202t
z.
I .,* Mayor p
ATTESTED:
ATTY
City
-
AN ORDINANCE ALLOWING THE OPERATION OF MOTORCYCLE TAXIS IN DAVAO CITY