i,''
,
Edgar P. Ibuyan Jr.
Ralph O. Abella
Bai Hundra Cassandra Dominique N. Advincula
Wilberto E. Al-ag
Dante L. Apostol Sr.
Conrado C. Baluran
Jessica M. Bonguyan
Louie John J. Bonguyan
Pilar C. Braga
Augusto Javier G. Campos III
Danilo C. Dayanghirang
Jonard C. Dayap
Edgar R. Ibuyan Sr.
Richlyn N. Justol-Baguilod
Pamela A. Librado-Morata
Diosdado Angelo Junior R. Mahipus
Bonifacio E. Militar
Myrna G. LDalodo-Oftiz
Antoinette G. Principe-Castrodes
J. Melchor B. Quitain Jr.
Albefto T. Ungab
Mary Joselle D. Villafuefte
Jesus Joseph P. Zozobrado III
Sebastian Z. Dutefte
Nilo D. Abellera
Maria Belen S. Acosta
laffar U. Marohomsalic
i
19th city Council
9s Regular Session
SERIES of 2021
PRESEl{T:
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
C,ouncilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Temporary Presiding fficer
ABSENT
Vice Mayor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
- On Official Business
- On Domestic Emergency Leave
- On Domestic Emergenry Leave
- On Sick Leave
ORDINANCE NO. O5O1.2T
SERIES of 2O2L
AN ORDINANCE INTEGRATING URBAI{ CANOPY 11{ THE CITY'S
TRAFFTC TSLANDS ON HTGHWAY ROADS, AilD ALONG
PAVEMENTS, PARKS, PLAYGROUNDS AND AREAS OF PUBTIC
RIGHT.OF.WAY

t
Ord. No. 0501-21
Be it ordained by the Honorable SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod of Davao City, in
session assembled, that:
SECTIOil 1. SHQBf,IIIE This Ordinance shall be known as the *TREE LINE
ORDINANCE,, of Davao City.
SECTION 2. DECLARATION OF POLICY - It is the poliry of the Local
Government of Davao City to protect and preserue the urban canopy within the territory
of the City and to promote the development of a healthful ecology by enacting
ordinances serving this purpose.
SECTION 3, SglgPE - This Ordinance shall be legal and in effect within the
tenitorial jurisdiction of Davao City.
SECTION 4. PURPOSE AND INTENT - The enactment of this Ordinance is
anchored upon the primary purpose of promoting the interest and welfare of the people
of Davao City by integrating urban canopy in the City's public streets, highways, parks
and playgrounds.
The planet faces a climate crisis due to various reasons. This is manifested
through increasing temperature, rising sea levels due to rapidly melting polar ice caps
and glaciers, frequent forest fires and droughts, to name a few. Climate change poses a
threat, of which even the City does not have immunity.
In response, the trees will contribute to the measures the City is taking to
al[eviate the detrimental effects caused by global warming and maintaining its status as
an eco-friendly City. These treelines are also in support of the City's urbanization as this
will benefit all drivers who often cruise during the day in the heat, the commuting public
who usually walk to anive at their destinations, and the people who seek to spend their
leisure time in parks and playgrounds.
Ultimately, the Iegislative intent of the Ordinance focuses on making the City
more conducive to environmental growth and protection, serving the purpose of
promoting the welfare and interest of the people.
SECTIOII 5. DEFINITION OF TERII|S - For this Ordinance, the following
terms, phrases and any derivations shall have the meaning given herein:
Large Trees - are those that reach a height of at least forty-five (a5) feet or
more with a mature spread of forty (40) feet or more.
Medium Trees- are those that reach a height of at least thifi (30) to forty-five
(45) feet with a mature spread of thirty (30) feet or more.
Park - shall refer to a public area that promotes and fosters recreational and
leisure activities.
Pavement - shalt refer to the paved area with a concrete surface on both sides
of the road.
Playground - shall refer to an outdoor area provided for children to play-in, and
often open to the public.
Sidewalk - shall refer to the footpath or footway along the road's side and often
designated for pedestrians.

Ord. No. 0501-21
Small Trees - are those that reach a height of at least twenty (20) to thirty (30)
feet with a mature spread of twenty (20) feet or more.
Street or highway - refem to the entire width of every puhlic way or right-of-way
when any part thereof is open to the public's use, as a ma*er of right, for p-urpos.r of
vehicular and pedestrian traffic.
Trafftc island - refers to the narrow strip of the concrete island between roads
often used to reducg cars'speed driving through or to provide a central refuge to
pedestrians crossing the streets.
Treeline - shall refer to the traffic island, the side of the pavement and both
sides of national and city highways, if applicable, atready ptanted with a row of trees.
Urban Canopy - shall refer to the collection of shrubs, trees, vegetation and
associated natural features that make up the City tree canopy and its growing zone.
SECTION 6. PSAU$ - The planted trees shall be in the traffic islands,
pafticularly those built on the highways, along the City's pavements, public parks,
playgroundq and other areas of public right-of-way.
SECTION 7. GENERAL PROCEDURES - As elaborated in the above title,
this Ordinance shall integrate urban canopy in the City's traffic islands on the highway
roads, along pavements, park and playgrounds, and public areas right-of-way.
This Ordinance shall call upon the Gty Enginee/s Office, City Environment and
Natural Resources Office, City Planning and Development Office, City Transport and
lraffic Management Office, the Committee on Public Works and Highways, the
Committee on Environment and Natural Resources, the Depaftment of public Works and
Highways and other related agencies for the planning and conception of the tree lines
across the Gty from its initial phase until its completion.
Prior to mounting, related offices, such as the City Engineer's Office and the
Depaftment of Public W-orks and Highways, shall be authorized to integrate the planting
of trees and creating of treelines in the budget for the proposed structures and in the
design of the road structures in the future.
Upon its implementation, the overall management and general maintenance of
these treelines shall be dispensed to the jurisdiction of the City Environment and
Natural Resources Office, particularly to the specific division who handles projects of
similar nature.
SECTION 8. COMPOSITION AND FUNCTIONS - This provision shall create
the Davao City Tree.Line Working Group, which will be responsible for strategizing,
formulating, and implementing according to the mandates of this Ordinance, -wfrei6
their functions and responsibilities emanate.
The Davao City Tree Line Working Group (DCTL-WG) shall be composed of the
following:

Chairperson
Co-Chairperson
Members:
Ord. No. 0501-21
- The City Mayor or the City Adminitsrator as her
duly authorized representative
- Department Head, City Environment and Natural
Resources Office
1. Depaftment Head, City Enginee/s Office
2. Department Head, City Transpoft and Traffic Management Office
3. Chairperson, Commiftee on Public Works and Highways of the
4. Chairperson, Committee on Environment and Natural Resources of
the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod
5. Representative, Office of the Vice Mayor
6. Representative, Department of Public Works and Highways
7. Representative, Environment and Natural ResourcesEnvironmental Management Bureau
8. Representative, National Parks Developments Committee
The Davao City Tree Line Working Group shall have the following functions:
1. To conduct inspections on the traffic islands and pavements'technical specifications;
2. To authorize relevant offices to include the mounting of trees in the budget of their
proposed structures and in the design of road structures in the future;
3. To research species of trees to be tended to ensure suitabitity;
4. To obserue the peftinent traffic islands and pavements to identify the species of
trees proportional to the islands or pavements' size and capacity (whether small
trees, medium trees or large trees) before mounting;
5. To resolve all issues of varying nature that may arise from the construction of
treelines;
6. To formulate guidelines on matters such as:
o Provisions governing the removal of trees posing as a hazard to
the public;
o Role of the community;
o Penalties for damaging of trees, either international or
unintentional;
o Damages caused by the roots to drainage, sidewalks, and roads;
and
o Shading in solar panels or collectors;
7. To conduct regular surueillance upon the construction and planUng of urban
canopies; and
8. To provide continuing support to the CENRO upon implementation.
SECTION 9. EUNDIXG - The Davao City Tree Line Working Grcup shall have
the necessary appropriation, which shall be included in the City's Budget to support its
activities and accomplish all of its deliverables.
SECTION 10. SEPARABILITY CIAUSE - If any part or provision of this
Ordinance is held invalid or unconstitutional, any other portion or provision hereof not
so affected shall continue to be valid and effective.
SECTIOil 11. REPEAIIilG CLAUSE - Any City Ordinance, resolution, and its
rules and regulations, or any paft thereof, which is inconsistent with any of the
provisions of Ordinance are hereby repealed or amended accordingly.

I
;
Ord. No. 0501-21
SECTION L2,
approval, fifteen days
This Ordinance shall take effect upon its
after its tull publication in a newspaper of general circulation in
ENACTED, on the Znd day of March 2021, by a unanimous vote of all the
Members of the Sanggunian, there being a quorum.
CERTIFIED CORRECT:
n An'vv61
CHARTTO N. fu.
SANTOS
ATTESTED:
ATTESTED:
R,
President
Temporary Presiding Officer
cns/kjtq
. LOPEZ
Secretary to the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod
(City Government Departrnent Head II)
APPRoVED: APR06202l
2A2L
SARA Z. DUTERTE
I
City Mayor N
Z. DUTEATE
Acilng OtY !{ayu t
a
City Administrator 7
AN ORDINANCE INTEGRATING URBAN CANOPY IN THE CITY'S TRAFFIC ISI.ANDS ON HIGHWAY ROADS,
AND ALONG PAVEMENTS, PARI(S, PLAYGROUNDS AND AREAS OF PUBUC RIGHT-OF-WAY