I
t
f"
'
City.of Davao
Ofrice of thri SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod
tgth City Council
44th Regular Session
SERIES of 2021
PRESENT:
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
ABSENT:
Vice Mayor
Councilor
Sebastian Z. Dutefte
Maria Belen S. Acosta
Alberto T. Ungab
- Temporary Presiding Officer
Ralph O. Abella
Nilo D. Abellera
Bai Hundra Cassandra Dominique N. Advincula
Wilbefto E. Al-ag
Dante L. Apostol Sr.
Conrado C. Baluran
Jessica M. Bonguyan
Louie John J. Bonguyan
Pilar C. Braga
Augusto Javier G. Campos III
Danilo C. Dayanghirang
Jonard C. Dayap
Edgar P. Ibuyan Jr.
Edgar R. Ibuyan Sr.
Richlyn N. Justo!-Baguilod
Pamela A. Librado-Morata
Diosdado Angelo Junior R. Mahipus
Jaffar U. Marohomsalic
Myrna G. L'Dalodo-Ortiz
Antoinette G. Principe-Castrodes
J. Melchor B. Quitain Jr.
Mary Joselle D. Villafuerte
Jesus Joseph P. Zozobrado III
- On Official Business
- OB- Attended a meeting with the
Commercial Attach6 of Switzerland
- On Sick Leave
Councilor Bonifacio E. Militar
ORDINANCE NO. 0783.21
SERIES of 2021,
AN ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING THE YOUTH AND
ADOLESCENT HEALTH AND DEVELOPMENT CENTER IN THE

Page 2'of L2
Ord. No. 0783-2L
'
Be it ordained by the Honorable SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod of Davao City, in
session assembled, that:
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE - This Ordinance shall be known as "THE DAVAO
CITY YOUTH AND ADOLESCENT CENTER ORDINANCE".
SECTION 2. POLICY STATEMENT - One of the State Policies as provided for
in the Constitution is for the State to protect and promote the right to health of the
people and instill health consciousness among them.
In its vision to have a country with well informed, empowered, responsible and
healthy adolescents who are leaders in the society, the Depaftment of Health also has
the Adolescent Health and Development Program, with the objective to improve the
health status of adolescents and enable them to fully enjoy their rights to health. As
such, all adolescents should have access to comprehensive health care and services in
an adolescent-friendly environment.
The Philippines also adheres to the United Nations Convention on the Right of
the Child which provides for the right of the child to the enjoyment of the highest
attainable standard of health and to facilities for the treatment of illness and
rehabilitation of health and for their right of access to such health care seruices.
Davao City also provides in its Davao City Women's Health Care Ordinance in
2013 that the rights and welfare of adolescents must also be protected.
Thus, it is the policy of the City Government of Davao to provide healthcare
seruices to its constituents, particularly to the vulnerable sectors of the society, such as
the teens/adolescents, in line with its mandate as a Iocal government unit to promote
the general welfare and the health and safety of its constituents.
SECTION 3. PURPOSE - This Ordinance aims to establish a Youth and
Adolescent Center in the City of Davao, which will answer to the needs of the youth
and adolescents, such as in matters of reproductive and mental health. It will serue as
a core or specific referral point that provides youth and adolescents with access to
holistic healthcare and other seruices. The composite objectives of the Youth and
Adolescent Center are as follows:
(1) To create awareness among the youth and adolescents on
reproductive health, gender equality and mental health;
(2) To create a youth and adolescent-friendly avenue where health
services, including that of mental health seryices, are accessible,
acceptable, equitable, appropriate and effective;
(3) To respond to the various health and psychosocialconditions of youths
and adolescents;
(4) To conduct trainings for healthcare personnel on how to properly deal
with the youth and adolescents;
(5) To empower young men and women through the programs of Service
Delivery, Youth and Adolescent Hotline, Community Outreach,
lnformation Education Communication, Training and Research.
t

Page 3 of L2
Ord. No. 0783-21
SECTION 4. DEFINITION OF TERMS - For purposes of this Ordinance, the
following terms are hereby defined:
2417 means twenty-four (24) hours a day, seven (7) days a week, three
hundred sixty-five (365) days per year;
Addiction refers to a primary chronic relapsing disease of brain reward,
motivation, memory, and related circuitry. Dysfunctions in the circuitry lead to
characteristic biological, psychological, social, and spiritual manifestations. It
is characterized by the inability to consistently abstain impairment and
behavioral control, craving, diminished recognition of significant problems with
one's behavior and interpersonal relationships and a dysfunctional emotional
response;
Adolescent refers to young people between the ages of ten (10) to nineteen
(19) years old who are in transition from childhood to adulthood. It also
refers to teens;
City Government refers to the City Government of Davao;
Comprehensive Sexuality Education refers to the process of acquiring
complete, accurate, relevant and age-appropriate information and skills on all
matters relating to the reproductive system, its functions and processes and
human sexuality and forming attitudes and belieft about sex, sexual identity,
interpersonal relationship, affection, intimacy and gender roles. It has the
purpose of developing the skills of young people for them to make informed
decisions such as the capacity to distinguish between the moral, religious,
social and cultural dimensions of related sensitive issues such as contraception
and aboftion, and decide to prevent risky behaviors that can undermine the
realization of their aspirations and potentials;
Counselling refers to the process of assisting and guiding clients, especially
by a trained person on a professional basis, to resolve personal, social, or
psychological problems and difficulties;
Davao City Youth and Adolescent Center refers to the Youth and
Adolescent center that is established in the City of Davao;
Family planning refers to a program which enables couples and individuals
to decide freely and responsibly the number and spacing of their children and
to have the information and means to do so, and to have access to a full range
of safe, affordable, effective, non-aboftifacient modern natural and artificial
methods of planning pregnancy;
Gender equality refers to the principle of equality between women and men
and equal rights to enjoy conditions in realizing their full human potentials to
contribute to, and benefit from, the results of development with the State
recognizing that all human beings are free and equal in dignity and rights. It
entails equality in opportunities, in the allocation of resources or benefits, or
in access to seruices in fuftherance of the rights to health and sustainable
human development, among others, without discrimination;
l1

, Page 4 of L2
Ord. No. 0783-2L
HIV refers to Human Immunodeficiency Virus;
HPV refers to Human Papillomavirus Vaccination;
TGBTQI + refers to an individual who identifies herself/himself as a lesbian,
gay, bisexual, transgender, transexual, queer, questioning, intersex, asexual,
pansexual, agender, gender queer, bigender, gender variant and pangender;
Maternal care covers all aspects of the mother's caretaking activity from her
child's bifth until it reaches the age of twelve to fifteen months;
Maternal health refers to the health of women during pregnancy, childbirth
and the postnatal period;
Mental Health refers to a state of well-being in which the individua! realizes
one's own abilities and potentials, scopes adequately with the normal stresses
of life, displays resilience in the face of extreme life events, works productively
and fruitfully, and is able to make a positive contribution to the community;
MMR refers to Measles, Mumps and Rubella vaccination;
Multidisciplinary approach refers to an approach in handling the concerns
of adolescents which involves drawing appropriately from multiple disciplines
and the participation of people from a number of professional disciplines to
cater adequately for the needs of teens and to redefine problems and reach
solutions based on a new understanding of complex situations;
Obstetric and gynecological seruices refers to seruices covering
pregnancy, childbifth, and the postpaftum period and the health of the female
reproductive system;
Pediatric care refers to the medical care of infants and children;
Reproductive Health (RH) refers to the state of complete physical, mental
and social well-being and not merely the absence of disease or infirmity, in all
matters relating to the reproductive system and to its functions and processes.
This implies that people are able to have a responsible, safe, consensual and
satisffing sex life, that they have the capability to reproduce and the freedom
to decide if, when, and how often to do so. This fufther implies that women
and men attain equal relationships in matters related to sexual relations and
reproduction;
Reproductive health care refers to the access to a full range of methods,
facilities, seruices and supplies that contribute to reproductive health and
well-being by addressing reproductive health-related problems. It also includes
sexual health, the purpose of which is the enhancement of life and personal
relations;
Sexually Transmitted Infection (STI) refers to any infection that may
be acquired or passed on through sexual contact;
Youth shall refer to those persons whose ages range from fifteen (15) to thirty
(30) years old;

,
t
Page 5 of t2
Ord. No. 0783-2L
Youth and Adolescent Center refers to a community center serving youths
and adolescents in a community. It may provide seruices for at-risk youths,
help to meet their health and other needs, including reproductive and mental
health concerns.
ARTICLE II
ESTABLISHMENT OF THE DAVAO CITY YOUTH AND ADOLESCENT
CENTER
SECTION 5. CREATION AND ESTABLISHMEilT OF THE DAVAO CITY
YOUTH AND ADOTESCENT CENTER (DCYAC) -The City Government of Davao shall
establish its Davao City Youth and Adolescent Center, hereby known as DCYAC, which
will act as a multipurpose center or a one-stop shop facility that will provide seruices and
activities to address the various concerns of youths and adolescents. The center shall
also serue as peer helping, counseling and treatment center especially for the youth and
adolescents in crisis.
SECTION 6. FUNCTIONS AND CHARACTERISTICS OF THE DAVAO CITY
YOUTH AND ADOLESCENT CENTER - The composite objectives of the Youth and
Adolescent Center are as follows:
(1)To create awareness among the youth and adolescents on reproductive
health, gender equality and mental health and to have a comprehensive
sexuality education;
(2) To create a youth and adolescent-friendly avenue where health services,
including that of mental health seruices, are accessible, acceptable,
eq uitable, a ppropriate and effective;
(3) To respond to the various health and psychosocial conditions of the youth
and adolescents;
(4)To conduct trainings for healthcare personnel on how to properly deal with
the youth and adolescents;
(5) To empower young men and women through the programs of Seruice
Delivery, Youth and Adolescent Hotline, Community Outreach, Information
Education Communication, Training and Research;
(6)To provide a multidisciplinary approach in handling the concerns of youths
and adolescents such as by working closely with other health and social
service units of the City Government and/or referring their concerns to these
seruice units, who have the resources and expeftise;
(7) To promulgate the necessary rules and regulations and/or guidelines for the
effective implementation of this Ordinance, particularly on the components
specified in Afticle III hereof;
(8) To enforce the Youth and Adolescent Center components;
(9) To provide for life skills training to the youth and adolescents;
(10) To conduct youth and adolescent profiling about the youth and adolescent
sector in the City of Davao;
(1 1) To peform such other functions/duties as may be necessary or incidental
in the fuftherance of the purpose for which it has been established.

Ord. No. O7B3-2L
SECTION 7. DAVAO CITY YOUTH AND ADOLESCENT CENTER
STEERING COMMITTEE- The Steering Committee of the DCYAC shall be composed of
the following:
City Mayor - Chairpercon
City Health Officer - Vice Chairperson
Members:
a. City Social Welfare and Development Officer
b. President of the Pederasyon ng SANGGUNIANG Kabataan
c. City Population Division
d. City Administrator
e. City Planning and Development Officer
t. Schools Division Superintendent or his/her duly designated representative
g. Two (2) youth-seruing organization representatives (church-based and
community-based)
h. Youth Development Officer
i. Sanggunian representatives who head the:
(1) Committee on Women
(2) Committee on Health
(3) Committee on Education
j. Chief of Police
k. Representative from Private Schools
l. Representative from Non-GovernmentOrganization
m. Integrated Gender Development Division under the Office of the City Mayor
SECTION S.
STEERING COMMITTEE - The Steering Committee of DCYAC shall have the following
functions:
1. To develop the policies relative to this Ordinance;
2. To approve the programs, schedule of activities, budgetary requirements and
key decisions peftaining to the Youth and Adolescent Center implementation;
3. To ensure the operationalization ofthe strategic plans and decisions agreed
upon by the committee;
4. To provide technical/clinical superuision and assistance or support to ensure the
implementation of the programs.
SECTION 9. YOUTH AND ADOTESCENT CENTER PROGRAM
MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE - A Youth and Adolescent Center Program Management
Structure is hereby created, to ensure the sustainability and operations of the DCYAC. It
shal! be responsible for the proper management of data of the youth and adolescents, the
daily operations of DCYAC and shall be responsible for coordinating and making the
referra! to other facilities or appropriate bodies. It shall also be responsible for
collaboration with other relevant national and local government bodies and civi! society
organizations to develop an evidence-based medium-term City Program of Action for the
prevention of teenage pregnancy and other concerns of adolescents and the youth, which
shall serue as the city's framework for inter-agency and inter-sectoral collaboration to
address said issues.

Page 7 of L2
Ord. No. 0783-21
The Center shall be headed by the City Health Office (CHO) which shall assign a
Center Coordinator under the supervision of the City Population Division, to oversee the
activities of the Youth and Adolescent Center. The following shall be the Cente/s
Organizational Chaft:
Administrative/
General Seruices
The Other Seruices of the Center shall be in coordination with the City Social
Welfare and Development Office.
SECTTON 10. JOB DESCRIPTION
a. Center Coordinator- The Center Coordinator shall oversee the activities of the
Youth and Adolescent Center. The details of his/her functions shall be as
follows:
1. He/she is authorized to sign, speak and represent the Center in
relevant documents and activities;
2. He/she shall repoft directly to the City Population Division of the
City Health Office (CHO);
3. He/she shall formulate criteria and program objectives, as well
as plans and programs for the Center;
4. He/she shall design administrative and operational plans and
strategies of the Center together with the City Population Division
and the CHO Head;
5. He/she shall coordinate with other concerned offices and
agencies in developing plans/projecb, such as from the City
Social Welfare and Development Office (CSWDO), with regard to
Social Services;
6. He/she shall represent the Center in inter-agency meetings and
conferences;
7. He/she shall peform other related functions and duties as may
be prescribed by this Ordinance.
City Health Office
City Population Division
Center Coordinator
Health Seruices
Other Seruices

a
I
Page B of 12
Ord. No. 0783-21
b. Health Seruice
b.1. Health Seruice Personnel - The City Health Office shall assign Health
Seruice personnel or CHO representatives to the Center, preferably from the
youth sector, from its pool of available employees or seruice personnel to
render daily duties in the Center. Said CHO representatives shall perform the
health-related programs of the Center, aligned with the CHO programs. They
shall also refer the health concerns of the youth and adolescents to the
appropriate bodies or professionals.
b.2. Contract of Seruice Personnel -The Center shall employ health
professionals on a contract-of-service basis, preferably from the youth sector,
who shall do consultancy work for the Center and peform other related tasks
as may be deemed necessary. These health professionals include obstetrician
gynecologist (0B-GYNE), urologist, dentist, pediatrician, midwives, nurses and
other health professionals determined to be necessary in the Center by the
Center Coordinator, in consultation with CHO and CSWDO.
c. Other Related Seruice
c.1. Social Worker - The City Social Welfare and Development Office shall
assign Social Workers to the Center, preferably from the youth sector, from its
pool of available employees or seruice personnel to render daily duties in the
Center. Said social workers shall assist in the planning, dissemination and
implementation of the programs and seruices to be undeftaken by the Center.
They shall also assist in the conduct of counselling and case management, in
coordination with the designated psychologist or psychometrician of the
Center. They shall also undertake the monitoring of programs/projects
implemented by the Center.
c.2. Contract of Service Personnel - The Center shall employ on a contract-ofservice basis the following:
(1) Professionals or Technical Adviser for Psychological Concerns,
preferably from the youth sector, who shall do consultancy work for
the Center and perform other related tasks as may be deemed
necessary. He/she shall sign all documents pertaining to the
Center's conduct of psychological assessments, psychological tests,
together with the Center Coordinator. He/she shall also assist in
formulating rehabilitation plans incidental to the services and
functions of the Center, as well as perform other related tasks
deemed necessary in the Center.
(2) Job Order employees or social media personnel, preferably from the
youth sector, to cater to the Youth and Adolescent Hotline.
d. Administrative/General Seruices personnel
d.1. Contract of Service Personnel - The Center shall employ clerks on a
contract-of-seruice basis, preferably from the youth sector, who shall
pefform clerical duties and other jobs as may be determined by the Center
Coordinator. They shall also take charge in the incoming and outgoing
communications of the Center, typing/encoding, records keeping and
ensuring the imposition of data privacy.
(

Page 9 of t2
Ord. No. 0783-2L
d.2. Personnel from the SANGGUNIANG Kabataan - The Pederasyon ng
SANGGUNIANG Kabataan Shall assign SK officials, on a rotation basis, to render
daily duties in the Center. They shall help in the implementation of the
progranls of the Center and shall also assist the youth and adolescent
clients with regard to their concerns. To do so, the Pederasyon ng
SANGGUNIANG Kabataan shall develop a system in order to effectively enforce
the same.
ARTICLE III
YOUTH AND ADOLESCENT CENTER COMPONENTS
SECTION 11.ts$Llffi
a. HEALTH EDUCATION FOR YOUTH AND ADOLESCENTS. The City
Government of Davao shall join and support the national government in
providing age and development-appropriate reproductive health education to
the youth and adolescents through regular lectures and community meetings.
Relevant topics would be youth and adolescent pregnancy, physical, social and
emotional changes of the youth and adolescent responsible parenthood,
reproductive health, prevention of obtaining sexually transmitted disease;
b. BASIC ESSENTIAT HEATTH CARE. The Youth and Adolescent Center shall
provide checkups, general medical consultations, immunizations or vaccines
that are required for the youth and adolescents such as MMR and HPV and
screening for breast and ceruical cancers, urology examinations for male
adolescents, dental and referral for laboratory seruices;
c. MATERNAL CARE FOR WOMEN. The City Government shall promote
maternal healthcare for youth and adolescent mothers, including the following
seruices to be provided in the Center:
(1) Free prenatal and postnatal care as well as postpaftum care;
(2) Mother's class to provide education on the care for their children,
exclusive breastfeeding, as well as how to take care of the parent's
well-being;
(3) Pediatric care and immunization to children of youth and adolescent
mothers;
(4) Immunizations to youth and adolescent mothers;
(5) Early detection and management of complications of pregnancy to
address the increasing mortality and morbidity of pregnancy and other
obstetric complications prevalent among youth and adolescent women;
(6) Obstetric and gynecological seruices;
(7) Post-paftum family planning seruices;
(B) Provide other assistance/aid to youth and adolescent parents.
d. REPRODUCTIVE HEATTH AND FAMILY PLANNING FOR THE
ADOLESCENTS AND THE YOUTH. The Center shall educate the youth and
adolescent on reproductive health, reproductive health care, comprehensive
sexuality education and family planning and shall endeavor to help reduce the
incidence of teenage pregnancy and to prevent successive pregnancies;
e. HIV ISTI EDUCATION CAMPAIGN. The Center shall promote information
and education on HIV and sexually transmitted infection to the youth and
adolescents- men, women and LGBTQI+s-and encourage voluntary
counseling and referral for HIV testing and management to appropriate
agencies/bodies;

?
Page 10 of L2
Ord. No. 0783-21
f . HEATTHY LIFESTYLE AMONG THE YOUTH AND ADOLESCENTS.
The City Government ihall promote and advocate healthy lifestyle for
the youth through the tonduct of lifestyle modification seminars, fitness
classes and programs.
SECTION 12. MENTAL HEALTHCARE
a. MENTAT HEALTH SERVICES. A responsive primary mental health services
towards the youth shall be developed and integrated by the Center as part
of its seruices. The Center is mandated to create its own program for mental
health in accordance with the general guidelines set by the Philippine Council
for Mental Health, in coordination with other stakeholders;
b. SUICIDE PREVENTION. Mental health seruices by the Center shall also
include mechanisms for suicide interuention, prevention, and response
strategies, with pafticular attention to the concerns of the youth and
adolescents. Twenty-four seven (2417) hotlines, to provide assistance to
individuals with mental health conditions, especially individuals at risk of
committing suicide, shall be set uF, and existing hotlines shall be
strengthened;
c. PUBTIC AWARENESS. The Center shal! initiate and sustain a heightened
multimedia campaign to raise the level of public awareness on the protection
and promotion of mental health and rights including, but not limited to,
mental health and nutrition, stress handling, guidance and counseling, and
other elements of mental health;
d. SUBSTANCE USE. The Center shall create programs for the prevention of
substance use and abuse, such as, but not limited to, education campaign
and counselling. It shall also provide intervention programs for those who
have addiction tendencies towards drugs, alcoho! and other substances;
e. SPIRITUAL COUNSELING. The Center shall also provide counseling to
youth and adolescents to guide them in their decision-making processes.
SECTION 13. PROTECTION AND SAFETY
a. ABUSE. The Center shall develop a system to detect or recognize signs of
abuse or violence among female and male youth and adolescents and to
provide counselling and/or referral for access to psychosocial support. The
Center shall also act as a crisis center for youth and adolescents, including
the LGBTQI+s, who are victims of violence. In relation to this, the Center
can refer the concerns of the victims to the appropriate shelters.
b. ANTI-BULIYING. The Center shall act as a safe haven for adolescents to protect
them from being bullied, Anti-bullying programs shall also be implemented;
c. GENDER DEVELOPMENT AND AWARENESS. The Center shall also provide
counseling to LGBTQI+s adolescents and shall endeavor to stop all forms of
discrimination towards them.
SECTION 14. YOUTH AND ADOLESCENT HOTLINE. To ensure that the
youth and adolescents in Davao City have ready access to their concerns and
for them to have accurate health and/or reproductive health information,
interuention and counselling, the Youth and Adolescent Center shall provide
a Youth and Adolescent Hotline through mobile and telephone numbers as
well as social media, which shall be open and accessible 2417.

Page 11 of LZ
Ord. No. 0783-2L
ARTICLE IV
FINAL PROVISIONS
SECTION 15. CONFIDENTIALITY. All data and information gathered in the
Teen Center, including those referred to it and those which the Center will also refer to
appropriate bodies, shall be treated with confidentiality.
SECTION 16. APPROPRIATIONS. The appropriation necessary for the
implementation of this Ordinance shall be included by the City Budget Officer in the
proposed Annual Budget of the City Government of Davao.
sEcTIOil t7, TMPIEMENTTilG RULES ANp REGULATIONS (rRR) - The
Steering Committee, together with associations or organizations, shall issue the IRR
necessary for the effective implementation of this Ordinance within one hundred twenty
(120) days from the effectivity thereof.
SECTIOil 18. SEPARABILITY CIAUSE - If any provision on this Ordinance is
declared unconstitutiona! or invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining
provisions not affected thereby shall continue to be in full force and effect.
SECTION 19. REPEALING CIAUSE - All laws, decrees, ordinances and other
administrative issuances or parts thereof which are inconsistent with the provisions of
this Ordinance are hereby modified, suspended or repealed accordingly.
SECTION 20, EFFECTMTY -This Ordinance shall take effect immediately after
its publication at least once in a newspaper of general circulation in Davao City.
ENACTED, on the 23'd day of November 202L, by a unanimous vote of all the
Members of the Sanggunian, there being a quorum.
CERTIFIED CORRECT:
\l/vvi,^\ /,hctARrTo N.$ANTOS
Secretary to the Sanggdniang Panlungsod
(City Government Depaflrnent Head II)
ATTESTED:
ERTO
. UNGAB
City Councilor
Temporary Presiding Officer
cns/$tq
I
I

I
rl
APPROVED:
JAN 1 I N?I
Ord. No. 0783-21
2021
t
/
t f u f az
ATTESTED:
SARA Z. DUTERTE
, CW naVy
Z. DTJTERTE
CW MaYor
ATTY.
T
City
AN ORDINANCE ESTABUSHING THE YOUTH AND ADOLESCENT HEALTH AND DEVELOPMENT CENTER IN THE