/
ReBublic of the Philippines
, City of Davao
\
tgth city Councl
29th Regular Session
SERIES of 202L
PRESENT:
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
ABSENT:
Vice Mayor Sebastian Z. Dutefte
Councilor Bonifacio E. Militar
- On Officia! Leave
- On Sick Leave
Alberto T. Ungab
- Temporary Presiding fficer
Ralph O. Abella
Nilo D. Abellera
Maria Belen S. Acosta
Bai Hundra Cassandra Dominique N. Advincula
Wilberto E. Al-ag
Dante L. Apostol Sr.
Conrado C. Baluran
Jessica M. Bonguyan
Louie John J. Bonguyan
Pilar C. Braga
Augusto Javier G. Campos III
Danilo C. Dayanghirang
Jonard C. Dayap
Edgar P. Ibuyan Jr.
Edgar R. Ibuyan Sr.
Richlyn N. Justol-Baguilod
Pamela A. Librado-Morata
Diosdado Angelo Junior R. Mahipus
Jaffar U. Marohomsalic
Myrna G. L'Dalodo-Ortiz
Antoinette G. Principe-Castrodes
J. Melchor B. Quitain Jr.
Mary Joselle D. Villafuerte
Jesus Joseph P. Zozobrado III
ORDINANCE NO. O67O-2L
SERIES ol2O2L
AN ORDINANCE CREATING THE AGRICULTURAL AND
BIOSYSTEMS ENGINEERING DIVISION OF THE CITY
AGRTCULTURTST OFFICE, AND THE CORRESPONDING
posrTloNs UNDER sucH Dlvrsroil, DETERMINTNG
THEIR POWERS, DUTTES AND FUNCTIONS

Page 2 of L4
Ord. No. 0670-21
Be it Drdained by the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod of Davao City in session
assembled, that:
SECTION 1. EIIE - This Ordinance shall be known as "AN ORDINANCE
CREATING THE AGRICUTTURAL AND BIOSYSTEMS ENGINEERII{G DIVISION
oF THE CrTY AGRICULTURTST OFFTCE, AND THE CORRESPONDTNG
POSrIIOilS UNDER SUCH DrVrSrON, DETERMINING THEIR POWERS, DUTIES
AND FUNCTIONS".
SECTION 2, DECLARATION OF PRINCIPLES AND POLICIES _
1. The City Agriculturist Office of Davao was established as one of the
depaflrnents created by the City Government of Davao focusing on agricultural
seruices. It envisions the agriculture sector to be dynamic and have cohesive
communities, self-reliant and empowered farmer entrepreneurs committed to
sustainable growth and development in alleviating the plight of marginal farmers,
fisherfolks and rura!-based entities of the city. It seeks to transform them into
socially and economically progressive members of society by setting up
favorable scenario/s towards sustainable agricultural development within the
context of a balanced ecology. The office commits to pursue sustainable
agri-fishery development for self-reliant rural and coastal communities by
providing quality and relevant programs and seryices. The objectives and goals
of the offtce are as follows:
Initiate and provide access to agricultural and fishery programs and
p@ects that will improve the quality of Iife of clients;
Develop agri-fi shery entrepreneurs;
Strengthen farming systems that maintain bio-diversity;
Provide institutional development support to clients;
Empower farmers and agri-clientele through a dynamic information and
technology access;
Enhance competencies of personnel in the delivery of seruices.
The vision of the office is to have motivated and competent government
professionals and paftners guided by the value of care for the environment, working
harmoniously towards an empowered agri-fishery sector of Davao.
2. The provision of agricultural and biosystems engineering seruices is vital and
necessary in the development and modernization of agriculture and fisheries,
and the implementation of the Food Security Program of the city;
3. SECTION 454(c)(2) of Republic Act 7160, otherwise known as the Local
Government Code of 1991, empowers the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod to create
such other offices as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of the City
Government.
4. SECTION 458(aXlXvii and viii) of Republic Act 7160, otherwise known as the
Local Government Code of 1991, authorizes the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod to
determine positions, powers, duties and salaries of officials and employees of the
City.
a
a
a
o
a
a

Page 3 of L4
Ord. No. 0670-2L
5. SECTION 46 of Republic Act No. 8435, otherwise known as the AFMA Law states
"Agriculture and Fisheries Infrastructure Support Services- x x x Provided, that
the departnent and the LGUs sha!! also strengthen its agricultura! engineering
groups to provide the necessary technical and engineering support in carrying
out the smooth and expeditious implementation of agricultura! infrastructure
pOects".
6. SECTION 29 of Republic Act No. 10601 (AFMech Law or Agricultural and Fisheries
Mechanization Law) in relation to Republic Act No. 10915 (Philippine Agricultural
and Biosystems Engineering Act of 2015) mandates all Local Government Units
to strengthen and establish Agricultura! and Biosystems Engineering Groups.
7. SECTION 34 of Republic Act No. 10915 (Philippine Agricultural and Biosystems
Engineering Act of 2016) mandates all concerned national government agencies,
Local Government Units (LGUs) and State Universities and Colleges (SUCs)
implementing, regulating, funding and undeftaking research, development,
training and extension, testing, evaluation and inspection as well as technical
audit of irrigation, farm mechanization, post haruest and agro processing
facilities, agricultural and biosystems infrastructures, farm-to-market roads, agrometeorology, forest mechanization development programs, and environmental
protection and conseruation programs and projects to employ the required
number of agricultural and biosystems engineers, and for this purpose, create
various levels of agricultural and biosystems engineer positions.
8. The Depaftment of Agriculture (DA), the Department of Budget and Management
(DBM), Civil Service Commission (CSC) and the Depaflrnent of the Interior and
Local Government (DILG) have issued Joint Memorandum Circular No. 02, SERIES
of 2020, entitled "Implementing Guidelines on the Strengthening and
Establishment of the Agricultural and Biosystems Engineering Groups of the Local
Government UniB (LGUs)' addressed to all Provincial Governors, City Mayors,
Municipal Mayors, Members of the Sanggunian, Local Agricultural Offices, Local
Finance Committees, and all other national and local government officials
concerned;
9. The Supreme Couft En Banc in its April 10, 2019 Resolution (Congressman
Hermilando I. Mandanas, et.al vs. Executive Secretary Paquito N. Ochoa, Jr. et.
d!, G.R. Nos. 199802 and 208488) declared as unconstitutional the phrase
"Internal revenue" appearing in Sections 284, 285, 287, 290, 378, 379, 380, 382,
409 and 461 ofthe Local Government Code; thus:
a. the share from the Internal Revenue Allotment (IRA) of the LGUs will
increase as this will now include other national taxes Iike customs duties;
and
b. LGUs will fu!!y assume the delivery of devolved seruices and facilities
prescribed under SECTION t7 of the Local Government Code of 1991 and
other legislative measures.

Page,4 of,1,4
Ord. No. 0670-2L
SECTION 3. DEFINITION OF TERMS AND ACRONYMS
SECTION 4.
EilGINEERING (ABE) DMSION - An Agricultural and Biosystems Engineering
(ABE) Division under the City Agriculturist Office (CAO) of Davao City shall be created.
A. The Division shall be headed by an Agricultural and Biosystems Engineer
(Engineer IV) with Salary Grade22.
B. The Division shal! be under the City Agriculturist Office
C. The Division shall have the following minimum sections and units:
1. Programs and Projects Management SECTION
1. 1 Programs/Projects Planning Unit
1.2 Programs/Projects Management and Information Unit.
ABE
Agricultural and Biosystems Engineering
Agricultural and
Biosystems
Engineering (ABE
Field of engineering which integrates engineering science and
designs with applied agricultural, biological, and environmenta!
sciences. It represents an evolution of the Agricultural
Engineering discipline applied to all living organisms and
addresses areas such as food safety and security, biodiversity,
new and renewable energy, ecosystems protection, climate
change mitigation, and human health and safety. (Commission
on Hiqher Education)
AFMA
Agricultural and Fisheries Modernization Act
AFMeC
Aqricultural and Fishery Mechanization Committee
AMTEC
Agricultura! Machinery Testing and Evaluation Center
BAFE
Bureau of Aoricultural and Fisheries Enqineerinq
BFAR
Bureau of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources
Biosystems
Any system of mutually interactinq bioloqical orqanisms
CAFC
City Aqricultural and Fishery Council
CAO
CiW Agriculturist Office
CSC
Civil Seruice Commission
DA
Depaftment of Agriculture
DA RFO-RAED
Depaftment of Agriculture Regional Field Offtce-Regional
Aqricultural Enqineerinq Division
DBM
Depaftment of Budget and Manaqement
DED
Detailed Engineering Design
DILG
Department of the Interior and Local Government
LGU
Local Government Unit
MFADDIESS
Manufacturer, Fabricators, Assemblers, Distributors, Dealers,
Impofters and Expofters
PABES
Philippine Aqricultural and Biosystems Engineering Standards
Paraprofessional
A person to whom a pafticular aspect of a professional task is
delegated but who is not licensed to practice as a fully qualified
professional
PSABE
Philiooine SocieU of Aqricultural and Biosystems Enqineers
RAED
Reqional Agricultural Engineering Division
SG
Salary Grade
TESDA
Technical Education and Skills Development AuthoriW
TVET
Tech nical-Vocational Education Training

Ord. No. 0670-2L
2. Engineering Plans, Designs and Specifications SECTION
2.1 Agricultural and Biosystems Machinery and Agro
Processing Plans, Designs, and Specifications Unit
2.2 Irrigation and Agricultural and Biosystems Infrastructure
Plans, Design and Specifications Unit.
3. Standards, Regulations and Enforcement Division
3.1 Accreditation and Registration Unit
3.2 Regulation and Enforcement Unit.
SECTION 5. POWERS. DUTIES AND FUNCTIONS OF THE ABE DIVISION
The ABE Division shall be responsible for the planning, coordinating,
implementing, monitoring, and regulating the agricultura!, fisheries and biosystems
engineering, mechanization and infrastructure programs and projects within the City.
Specifically, the ABE Division shall have the following duties and functions:
A. Provide agricultural and biosystems engineering seruices which include
engineering survey, valuation/appraisal, preparation and evaluation of plans,
designs, technica! specifications, feasibility studies and cost
estimates/program of work of irrigation, soil and water conseruation and
management, small water impounding, small farm reseloir, farm machinery,
slaughterhouses, poultry dressing plants, post-haruest facilities, auction
markets, farm-to-market roads/farm access roads and other agricultural,
fisheries and biosystems infrastructure pQects.
B. Administer, supervise, and coordinate the construction, operation,
maintenance, improvement and management of irrigation, soil and water
conseruation and management, small water impounding, small farm reselvoir,
farm machinery, slaughterhouses, poultry dressing plants, post-haruest
facilities, auction markets, farm-to-market roads/farm access roads and other
ag ricu ltu ral, fisheries and biosystems infrastructu re projects.
C. Undertake the registration of agricultural and fishery machinery, equipment
and facilities and the enforcement of the Philippine Agricultural and
Biosystems Engineering Standards (PABES) and other agricultural, fishery and
biosystems engineering regulatory activities in coordination and collaboration
with the DA Regional Field Office-Regional Agricultural Engineering Division
(RFO-RAED), concerned national government agencies and other offices of
the LGUs. In Iine with this, the ABE Division shall:
1. Provide assistance to the Bureau of Agricultural and Fisheries
Engineering (BAFE), through the RFO-RAED, on the validation
and surveillance of applications at the City level relative to the
issuance of Permit to Operate small and medium sized
agricultural and fishery machinery and equipment
man ufacturers, fabricatorc, assemblerc and impofters;
2. Monitor the City-wide compliance on the provision of after-sales
seruice and warranty of concerned agricultural and fisheries
machinery assemblers, manufacturers, impofterc, suppliers,
distributors and dealers in the City in collaboration with BAFE;

I
la
r +
Ord. No. 0670-2L
3. Conduct inspection, performance testing and evaluation of
agricultural fisheries and biosystems machineries and equipment
procured by the City Government, in coordination and
collaboration with the RFO-RAED and Agricultural Machinery
Testing and Evaluation Center (AMTEC);
4. Provide technical assistance to the City Building Official in the
evaluation and processing of application permits and ceftificate
of occupancy of agricultural, fishery and biosystems buildings
and structures to ensure enforcement of PABES and Republic
Act No. 10915; and
5. Coordinate with the Bureau of Fisheries and Aquatic Resources
(BFAR) on the City-wide registration of fish hatcheries, fish
breeding facilities, private fishponds and post haruest facilities
for fishing communities pursuant to Sections 28 and 33 of
Republic Act No. 8550 (Philippine Fisheries Code of 1998).
D. Establish, maintain and regularly update the city database on irrigation,
post-harvest, agricultural machinery and other infrastructure projects at local
levels.
E. Coordinate with concerned national government agencies with regard to the
implementation of national government programs and projects on inigation,
farm mechanization, post-haruest facilities, farm-to-market roads and
agricultural, fisheries and biosystems infrastructure within the city.
F. Be in the frontline of the delivery of basic agricultural and biosystems
engineering services.
G. Oversee, coordinate or provide City-wide training, conduct social preparation,
institutional development and extension activities to farmers and fisherfolks
to sustain the operation and utilization of irrigation, postharuest facilities,
agricultura!, fishery and biosystems machinery projects. In line with this, the
City ABE Division shall coordinate and collaborate with State and Local
Colleges and Universities, TESDA and other concerned government agencies
for the competency assessment and ceftification of agricultural and
biosystems engineering technicians and operators, including the
establishment and operation of accredited Technical-Vocational Education
Training CIVFD and assessment centers, learning sites/farm schools, farm
tourism sites for agricultural and biosystems engineering within the City.
H. Conduct pilot testing and commercialization of matured agricultural and
fi sheries engi neeri ng tech nologies.
I. Provide assistance in the organization and operation of the Agricultural and
Fishery Mechanization Committee (AFMeC) of the City Agricultural and Fishery
Council (CAFC) and serve as Vice Chairperson and Secretariat of the said
committee, as well as in providing technical assistance and support to the
City chapter of the Philippine Society of Agricultural and Biosystems Engineers
(PSABE) and ABEs in the local implementation of agricultural and fisheries
mechanization and infrastructure projects.

PageT of L4
Ord. No. 0670-21
J. Responsible in planning, design, institutional development, and management
of communal irrigation system devolved or to be devolved to the City
Government pursuant to SECTION 33 of Republic Act No. 8435 or the
Agricultural and Fisheries Modernization Act (AFMA).
K. Formulate City Agricultural and Biosystems Engineering Master Plan for
approval of the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod pursuant to SECTION 33 of Republic
Act No. 10601.
L. Formulate City Agricultural and Biosystems Engineering Master Plan/Program
for Approval by the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod pursuant to Joint DA-DILG MC
No. 11, SERIES of 2004, in relation to Republic Act No. 10915. The master
plan/program which suppofts and complements the Comprehensive Land Use
Plans, Local Development Plans, Local Food Security and Agri-Fisheries
Modernization Plans shall have the following sub-components:
1. Agricultural, fishery and biosystems mechanization
2. Soil and water conseruation and irrigation
3. Farm-to-market road or farm access road development
4. Post-haruest, agro-processing and agro-industrial development
5. Agricultural and biological waste utilization and management
6. Farm electrification and bio/renewable-energy development.
M. Exercise such other powers and perform such other duties and functions as
may be prescribed by law or Ordinance.
SECTION 6. DUTIES AND FUNCTIONS OF PROGRAMS AND PROJECTS
MANAGEMENT SECTION - The Programs and Projects Management SECTION shall:
A. Formulate City Agricultural and Fisheries Mechanization Plan/Program and City
Agricultural and Biosystems Engineering Master Plan/Program.
B. Superuise or administer the construction, operation, maintenance, improvement
and management of irrigation, soil and water conservation and management,
small impounding, small farms reseloir, farm machinery, slaughterhouses,
poultry dressing plants, post-haruest facilities, auction markets, farm-to-market
roads/farm access roads, and other agricultural, fisheries and biosystems
infrastructure projects of the City Government.
C. Undertake the management, operation and maintenance of communal irrigation
systems/projects.
D. Establish, maintain and regularly update the City database on irrigation,
post-haruest, agricultural machinery and agricultural fishery and biosystems
infrastructure projects at all local levels.
E. Coordinate with the concerned national government agencies with regard to the
implementation of national government programs and projects on irrigation, farm
mechanization, post-haruest facilities, farm-to-market roads and agricultural,
fisheries and biosystems infrastructure within the City.

Page 8 of L4
Ord. No. 0670-21
F. Oversee, coordinate or provide city-wide training and extension activities to
farmers and fisherfolks pafticularly in the installation, operation and maintenance
of their irrigation, postharuest facilities, agricultural, fishery and biosystems
machinery projects in coordination with the agriculture and fisheries extension
worker; including the establishment and operation of accredited TechnicalVocational Education Training (T/ED and assessment centers, learning
sites/farm schools, farm tourism sites for agricultural and biosystems engineering
within the City.
G. Undeftake and/or coordinate the pilot testing and commercialization of matured
agricultural, fisheries and biosystems engineering technologies; and
H. Provide assistance in the organization and operation of the Agricultural and
Fishery Mechanization Committee (AFMeC) of the City Agricultural and Fishery
Council (CAFC), as well as in providing technical assistance and support to the
City chapter of the Philippine Society of Agricultural and Biosystems Engineers
(PSABE) and ABEs in the local implementation of agricultural and fisheries
mechanizaUon and infrastructure projects.
SECTION 7. DUTIES AilD FUI{CTIONS OF THE ENGINEERING PLANS,
DESIGNS AND SPECIFICATIONS SECTIOI{ The Planning, Design and
Specifi cation SECTION shall :
A. Provide agricultural and biosystems engineering seruices which include
engineering suruey, valuation/appraisal, preparation and evaluation of plans,
designs, technical specifications, feasibility studies, cost estimates/program of
work of irrigation, soil and water conseruation and management, small water
impounding, small farm reseruoir, farm machinery, slaughterhouses, auction
markets, poultry dressing plants, post-harvest facilities, farm-to-market
roads/farm access roads and other agricultural, fisheries and biosystems
i nfrastructu re projects.
B. Prepare Detailed Engineering Designs (DED) and program of works of communal
irrigation systems/projects in coordination with National Irrigation Administration
(NrA).
SECTION 8.
DUTIES AND FUNCTIONS OF THE STANDARDS,
REGUTATIONS AND ENFORCEMENT SECTION - The Standards Regulation and
Enforcement SECTION shall facilitate and monitor at the City level the registration of
agricultural and fishery machinery and facilities, and undertake the enforcement of the
Philippine Agricultural and Biosystems Engineering Standards (PABES) and other
agricultural, fishery and biosystems engineering regulatory activities, in coordination
and collaboration with the Depaftment of Agriculture Regional Field Office-Regional
Agricultural Engineering Division (RFO-RAED), concerned nationa! government
agencies, and other offices of the LGUs. In line with this, the City ABE Division shall:
A. Provide assistance to BAFE, through the RFO-RAED on the validation and
surueillance of applications at the City level relative to the issuance of Permit to
Operate of all agricultural and fishery machinery and equipment manufacturers,
fabricators, assemblers, distributors, dealers, impofters and expofters
(MFADDIESS).

,
tl
Ord. No. 0670-2L
B. Monitor the City-wide compliance and provide assistance in the enforcement of
the provision of after-sales seryice and waranty of concerned agricultural and
fisheries machinery MFADDIESs dealers in the City in collaboration with BAFE.
C. Conduct inspection, peformance and acceptance testing and evaluation of
agricultural, fisheries and biosystems machineries and equipment procured by
the City Government, in coordination and collaboration with the RFO-RAED and
AMTEC.
D. Provide technical assistance to the City Building Official in the evaluation and
processing of applications for permits and ceftificates of occupancy of
agricultural, fishery and biosystems buildings and structures to ensure the
enforcement of PABES and Republic Act No. 10915.
E. Coordinate with BFAR on the city-wide registration of fish hatcheries, fish
breeding facilities, private fishponds and post-haruest facilities for fishing
communities.
SECTION 9.
CREATION OF AGRICULTURAL AND BIOSYSTEMS
ENGINEER PLAilTILIA POSITIONS - Pursuant to SECTION 13 of Civil Service
Commission Memorandum Circular No. 13, SERIES of L992, entitled "Guidelines and
Standards in the Establishment of Organizational Structure and Staffing Pattern in the
Local Government Units, the City ABE Division shall have the minimum plantilla
positions to be created.
A. Office of the Division Head
Position
Salary Grade
Number of persons
City Government Division Head (Engineer IV)
Engineering Assistant
and
Ma
SECTION
and
SECTION
Standards
and Enforcement SECTION
Engineer III (SECTION Head)
Engineer II
Engineer I
t2
EPD55
Engineer III (SECTION Head)
Engineer II
Engineer I
t2
SRES
Engineer III (SECTION Head)
Engineer II
Engineer I
t2
TOTAL
t4

Page 10 of L4
Ord. No. 0670-2I
SECTIOil 10. DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILMES OF THE POSITIONS -
The duties and responsibilities of the positions under the City Agricultural and
Biosystems Engineering Division are as follows:
Position
Duties and Responsibilities
Engineer IV, Agricultural
and Biosystems
Engineering Division Head
1) As head of the Division, oversees the day-to-day
operations of the Division.
2) Provides over-all leadership in the planning and
implementation of the programs and projects of the City
ABE Division.
3) Represent the City ABE Division in conferences, meetings
and external functions.
4) Ensure a conducive environment for effective working
relationship between the City ABE Division and
coord i nating/collaborating agencies.
5) Repoft plans, programs, activities and accomplishments to
the immediate superuisor.
6) Perform such other functions as the department or
division mandates and other circumstances may warrant.
Engineer III, SECTION
Head, (Prog rams/Prolects
Management SECTION)
1) Superuise, coordinate and monitor the construction,
operation, maintenance, improvement and management of
irrigation, soil and water conservation and management,
small water impounding, small farm reservoir, farm
machinery, slaughterhouses, auction markets, poultry
dressing plants, post-haruest facilities, farm-to-market
roads/farm access roads and other agricultural, fisheries
and biosystems infrastructure projects of the City
Government.
2) Oversee, coordinate or provide city-wide training and
extension activities to farmers and fisheffolK, particularly
in the installation, operation and maintenance of their
irrigation, postharvest facilities, agricultural, fishery and
biosystems machinery projects, in coordination with the
agriculture and fisheries extension workers, including the
establishment and operation of accredited TechnicalVocational Education Training (T\/ED and assessment
centers, learning sites/farm schools, farm tourism sites for
agricultural and biosystems engineering within the City.
3) Superuise or coordinate the city-wide pilot testing and
commercialization of matured agricultural, fisheries and
biosystems engineering technologies.
4) Pefform other tasK and functions that may be required by
the immediate superuisor.
Engineer III, SECTION Head,
(Plans, Designs and
Specifications SECTION)
1) Prepare, review and recommend engineering plans, designs,
technical specifications, program of works, feasibility studies
and cost estimates/program of work of irrigations, soil and
water conservation and management small water
impounding, small farm reseruoir, slaughterhouses, auction
markets, farm-to-market roads/farm access roads and other
agricultural, fisheries and biosystems infrastructure projects
of the City Government.
2) Perform other tasks and functions that may be required by
the immediate supervisor.

Page 11 of L4
Ord. No. 0670-21
Engineer III, SECTION Head,
(Regulation and
Enforcement SECTION)
1) Plan and superuise the enforcement of the PABEs and other
agricultural, fishery and biosystems engineering regulatory
activities, in coordination and collaboration with RFO-RAED,
concerned national government agencies and other offices of
the LGUs.
2) Superuise or conduct monitoring on the city-wide compliance
on the provision of after-sales service and warranty of
concerned agricultural and fisheries machinery assemblers,
manufacturers, impofters, suppliers, distributors and dealers
in the City, in collaboration with BAFE through RAED.
3) Supervise or conduct inspection, performance and
acceptance testing of biosystems machineries and equipment
procured by the City Government in coordination and
collaboration with the RFO-RAED, AMTEC or BAFE.
4) Perform other tasks and functions that may be required by
the immediate supervisor.
Engineer II
1) Assist their respective SECTION Chiefs in the planning and
implementation of all programs and projects of their
respective Sections.
2) Perform other tasks and functions that may be required by
the immediate superuisor.
Engineer I
1) Under immediate supervision of Engineer II, assist in the
planning and implementation of all programs and projects of
their respective Sections.
2) Performs other tasks and functions that may be required by
the immediate superuisor.
Engineering Assistant
1) Responsible for performing a variety of paraprofessional and
clerical assignmenB in support of various functions within the
division.
2) Responsible for managing the research and reproduction
activities of engineering drawings including, but not limited
to: researching plans for requested information for City
departments and the general public; maintaining various
databases; maintaining various lists and log books for
tracking purposes; transferring electronic files; assigning
street names and addresses for the subdivision review
process; copying improvement plans, maps, quarter sections,
and plab; and filing large drawings, valve cards, and lists.
3) Responsible in assisting professional staff members by
providing information to employees and the public regarding
various public works construction projects.
4) Assist in researching, analyzing, and resolving public inquiries
or complaints.
5) Assist in writing, editing, and typing brochures, flyers,
newsletters, commu nity notifications, a nd other materials.
6) Act as a liaison to different city and national government
offices.
7) Peform other tasks and functions that may be required by
the immediate supervisor.

Page 12 of L4
Ord. No. 0670-2L
SECTION 11. APPOINTMENT AND OUATIFICATIONS - The positions in
the City ABE Division shall be appointed by the C,ty Mayor in accordance with Civil
Seruice laws and rules where the appointee shall have met the qualification standards
set by the Civil Seruice Commission pursuant to DA-DBM-CSC and DILG Joint
Memorandum Circular No. 02, SERIES of 2020, and other CSC issuances. Minimum
qualifications for each position are stated in SECTION 7.1 of the Joint Memorandum
Circular No. 002 between the Depaftment of Agriculture, the Civil Seruice Commission,
the Depaflrnent of Budget and Management and the Department of the Interior and
Local Government for the ABE Division.
A. Qualifications for the position of Engineering Assistant with Salary Grade 8:
a
1.
2.
3.
4.
Completion of two years studies in college
One (1) year of relevant experience
Four (4) hours of relevant training
Career Seruice First Level Eligibility (Sub-professional).
B. Qualifications for the position of Engineer I with Salary Grade 12:
1. Bachelor's degree in Agricultural Engineering or Agricultural and
Biosystems Engineering
2. Experience and training are not required
3. Eligibility as stated in Republic Act No. 10915 (An Act Strengthening,
Modernizing and Aligning the Practice of Agricultural Engineering in the
Country into the Internationally Recognized Practice of Agricultural and
Biosystems Engineering, and for Other Purposes).
C. Qualifications for the position of Engineer II with Salary Grade 16:
1. Bachelor's degree in Agricultural Engineering or Agricultural and
Biosystems Engineering
2. Four (4) years in position(s) involving management and superuision, one
(1) year of which is relevant to agricultural engineering or agricultura!
and biosystems engineering
3. Forty (40) hours of superuisory/management training/learning and
development intervention
4. Eligibility as stated in Republic Act No. 10915 (An Act Strengthening,
Modernizing and Aligning the Practice of Agricultural Engineering in the
Country into the Internationally Recognized Practice of Agricultural and
Biosystems Engineering, and for Other Purposes).
D. Qualifications for the position of Engineer III with Salary Grade 19:
1. Bachelor's degree in Agricultural Engineering or Agricultural and
Biosystems Engineering
2. Two (2) years of relevant experience in agricultural engineering or
agricultural and biosystems engineering
3. Eight (8) hours of relevant training
4. Eligibility as stated in Republic Act No. 10915 (An Act Strengthening,
Modernizing and Aligning the Practice of Agricultura! Engineering in the
Country into the Internationally Recognized Practice of Agricultural and
Biosystems Engineering, and for Other Purposes).

Ord. No. 0670-2t
E. Qualifications for the position of Engineer IV with Salary Grade 22:
1. Bachelor's degree in Agricultural Engineering or Agricultural and
Biosystems Engineering
2. Three (3) years of relevant experience in agricultura! engineering or
agricultural and biosystems engineering
3. Sixteen (16) hours of relevant training
4. Eligibility as stated in Republic Act No. 10915 (An Act Strengthening,
Modernizing and Aligning the Practice of Agricultural Engineering in the
Country into the Internationally Recognized Practice of Agricultural and
Biosystems Engineering, and for Other Purposes).
SECTION 12. INITIAL MANPOWER COMPLEMENT
A. The existing Agricultura! Engineering Divison of the Office of the City Agriculturist
and its Agricultura! and Biosystems Engineers shall be transferred to and form
paft of the initial manpower complement of the City Agricultural and Biosystems
Engineering Division following the rules and regulations of the Civil Seruice
Commission for transfer of personnel.
B. The City Mayor may reassign registered and licensed agricultural and biosystems
engineers presently employed in the other Offices of the City Government to
augment the initial manpower complement of the City Agricultural and
Biosystems Engineering Division following the CSC rules and regulations on reassignment of personnel.
C. The existing City Assistant Agriculturist who is a registered and licensed
agricultural and biosystems engineer may be designated by the City Mayor as
City Agricultural and Biosystems Engineer, following CSC rules on designation of
personnel.
D. The City Mayor may hire Agricultural and Biosystems Engineers as emergency,
casual or contractua! employ€s, pursuant to SECTION 77 of the Local Government
Code of 1991 and other peftinent laws.
SECTION 13. APPROPRIATIOil - The appropriation necessary for the
implementation of this Ordinance shall be included by the City Budget Officer in the
proposed Annual Appropriation of the CiU Government.
SECTIOil 14. AUTOMATIC REVIEW AND OVERSIGHT . This Ordinance
shall be reviewed every three (3) years. The scope, functions, plans, organizational
structure, administration and other pertinent tasks of the Agricultural and Biosystems
Division shall be evaluated every three (3) years by a committee composed of the head
of the Human Resource Management Ofifice, head of the City Planning and
Development Office, head of the City Agriculturist Office, division head of the
Agricultural and Biosystems Division, representative from the City Mayo/s Office, the
Chairperson of the Committee on Agriculture of the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod, and the
Chairperson of the C.ommittee on Appointments and Government Reorganization of the
SECTION 15, EFFECTMW- This Ordinance shall take effect immediately
upon approval.

Ord. No. 0670-21
ENACTED, on the 3'd day of August 202L, by a unanimous vote of all the
Members of the Sanggunian, there being a quorum.
CERTIFIED CORRECT:
Cfr#iricJ'fu"
Secretary to the Sanggufiiang Panlungsod
ATTESTED:
RTO
UNGAB
Acting Vice Mayor
Temporary Presiding Officer
cns/johanna
(City Government Depaftment Head $L
P[ft/
APPROVED:
ocT 2 5 ?021
202L
DUTERTE
aCiV Mayor2
ATTESTED:
ATTY.
T.
City Admin
,
AN ORDINANCE CREATING THE AGRTCULTURAL AND BIOSYSTEMS ENGINEERING DIVISION OF THE
CITY AGRICULTURIST OFFICE, AND THE CORRESPONDING POSMONS UNDER SUCH DIVISION,
DETERMINING THEIR POWERS, DUTIES AND FUNCilONS