.olill9b=.
iffi
Ref . No. CAdG2022-00,074
2Nd INDORSEMENT
February 2,2022
'ntyt!
Respectfully returned to Ms. Charito N. Santos, Secretary to the SANGGUNIANG
Panlungsod, this City, the within Legal Opinion No. 25, SERIES of 2022 dated December
31, 202L ftom the City Legal Office, relative to the duly signed and approved Ordinance
NO. 0784-21, SCTiCS Of 2021 CNtitICd, "AN ORDINANCE PROTECNNG HERITAGE TREES
AND ALL OTHER TREES IN THE CITY OF DAVAO AND FOR OTHER PURPOSESi for your
information and appropriate action.
For the City Mayor:
ATTY. TRISTAN
MINGO
Assistant City
(Administration)
f
( LTTL
FEB 03 2022 *1t'1\
€.l
AIDE tv
ft
CITY
0FTICE
mfJroffm lf) rfflnDs OTTDfl
R
L
E
EA S E D
Second Floor, City Hall Building, City Hall Drive, San Pedro St., Davao City
(082)224-3004 o (082) 241-1000 loc.265 r cmo@davaocity.gov.ph
-am
BAY @
LIFE IS HERE
Republic gf the P.hilippines
OFFTCE OF THE C TYI\{AYOR
c
MARY
t

lacrll'9
e?
P
o lVG
!t
Republic.of the PhiliPPines
OFFICE OF THE CITY LEGAL OFFICER
Tel. No. 298-6970
Trunk Line No. 241-1000 Loc 267+225*230
clo@davaocity'gov.Ph
Ref. No. CLO-2021-4286
Legal Opinion No.
SERIES of 2022
RE: ORDINANCE NO. 0784-71, SERIES OF 2021 entitled "A1{
ORDINANCE PROTECTING HERITAGE TREES AND ALL
OTHER TREES IT{ THE CITY OF DAVAO AND FOR OTHER
PURPOSES"
1*INDoRSEMEt{T
December 31,2021
Respectfully forwarded to the Office of the City Mayor, through the Office
of the City Administrator, both this City, the subject Ordinance, informing you
end that the enactment of the subject ordinance is well within the powers of the
SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod citing SECTION 458 (a) (1) (vi) of RA 7160, otherwise
known as the Local Government Code of 1991, to quote:
ion 458. Powers, Duties, Functiors and Compensation.
(a) The SANGGUNIANG panlungsod as the bgislative body of the city, shall
enact ordinances, approve resolutbns and appmpriate funds for the
general welfare of the city and iB inhabitanb pursuant to SECTION 16 of
this Code and in the proper exercise of the corporute powers of the city
as provided for under SECTION 22 of this Codq and shall:
(1) Approve ordinances and pass resolutions necessry for an efficient
and effective city government, and in this connection, shall:
(vi) holect the envirunment and impo* app,opriab Fnalties
for ac?s which endangcr the envircnmen| such as dynamite fishing
and other forms of destructive fishing, illegal logging and smuggling of
log, smuggling of natural resources producB and of endangered species
of flora and faun4 slash and burn farming, and such other activities
which result in pollutio4 acceleration of eutrophication of riverc and
lakes, or of ecological imbalancq
Viewed therefrom, this office recommends the approval of the Ordinance.
lo
RESPECTFULLY SUBMITTED.
Arw. osMUil ffi,,^nlrEvA, rR.
ASST. City Legal fficer
fficer-In{hargeffiffi]&**'
&"t*x fiI?
EffilESE*G-hrlD
Date ofapproval: December 31,202L
loll- Oo
RE
tVED
,N
rl
A
qq4-rc

s.r c'i; A9
December 22,2021
lc\11l-x
SARA Z. DUTERTE
City Mayor
\
PursuanttOsub-section3,Paragraphc,section45g,Articleone'Title
Five,chapter3BookulandSection54ofBooklofRepublicActNo'7160,otherwise
known as the Local Government Code of 1991' we are furnishing you a copy of
Resorution No. Q2gsa-zl- and its corresponding ordinance No. gElL
both SERIES
of 2OZl, of ttle SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod' AN ORDII{ANCE PROTBCTING
HERITAGE TREES AND ALL OTHER TREES IN THE CITY OF DAVAO AND FOR
OTHER PURPOSES, for your information, guidance and appropriate action'
Very truly Yours,
ror rnd rn Be\plq secre.tary
Na. lxntsl r.ltYts
CHARITO N; SANTOgtlrr.kprrryhhest4tqf.{hi{lJnrs0d
Secretary to the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod
(City Government Department Head II)
t
RECEIVEE
CMO. CRD
*
Madam:

City'of Davao
PRESENT:
ABSENT:
Alberto T. Ungab
- Temporary Presiding Officer
Ralph O. Abella
Nilo D. Abellera
Bai Hundra Cassandra Dominique N. Advincula
Wilberto E. Al-ag
Dante L. Apostol Sr.
Conrado C. Baluran
lessica M. Bonguyan
Louie John J. Bonguyan
Pilar C. Braga
Augusto Javier G. Campos III
Danilo C. Dayanghirang
Jonard C. Dayap
Edgar P. Ibuyan Jr.
Edgar R. Ibuyan Sr.
Pamela A. Librado-Morata
Richlyn N. Justol-Baguilod
Diosdado Angelo Junior R. Mahipus
Jaffar U. Marohomsalic
Myrna G. LDalodo-Ortiz
Antoinette G. Principe-Castrodes
L Melchor B. Quitain Jr.
Mary Joselle D. Villatuerte
Jesus Joseph P. Zozobrado III
Councilor Bonifacio E. Militar
- On Official Business
- OB - Attended a meeting
with the
Attach6 of Switzerlan
- On Sick Leave
ORDIilANCE NO.0784.21
SERIES of 2021
A1{ ORDINANCE PROTECTING HERITAGE TREES
AND AtL OTHER TREES It{ THE CITY OF DAVAO
AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES
lgth city Council
44s Regular Session
SERIES of 2021
r
ts:
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
C.ouncilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
@uncilor
Councilor
Vice Mayor Sebastian Z. Duterte
Councilor Maria Belen S. Acosta

Ord. No. 0784-2L
Be it ordained by the Honorable SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod of Davao City in
session assembled, that:
SECTIOI{ 1. SHORT TITTE -This Ordinance shall be known and referred to as
thc.TREES PROTECTION ORDII{ANCE OF DAVAO CITY",
SECTION 2. DECLARATION OF POTICIES -The City Government of Davao
hereby declares the following as its policies:
1. The City recognizes the environmental and economic benefits of trees such as
its ecological role in the improvement of air quality, reduction of floods, and
habitat of several wildlife species, among others.
4. The City recognizes, in the light of Climate Change, the importance of trees
that serves as the "lungs" of the earth in mitigating the adverse effect of
environmental degradation,
5. Protection and preservation of trees is a collaborative effort not only of the
City Government but also of every Dabawenyo resident and private and public
institutions based in Davao City.
SECTIOT{ 3. DEFINffiON OF TERMS -As used in this Ordinance, the following
terms shall mean:
1. City - the City of Davao.
4. Heritage tr€e - a healthy native or endemic, exotic, rare, threatened and
endangered tree with consideration to the scientific, rarity, the historical,
cultural, social, educational, and aesthetic significance of the tree, whether in a
public land or private property and qualified as such under the provisions of this
Ordinance. It does not include trees in tree plantation developments and allowed
to be harvested under DENR policies.
5. IUCN - International Union for Conservation of Nature.
6. olnner - the owner, possessor, occupant, cultivator of the private property
on which the tree may be situated.
7. Parks - shall mean both government-owned and maintained public spaces
and Privately-owned public open spaces (POPOS).
2. Davao City deeply values the historical importance of heritage trees as it is an
icon of the City's past and a reminder that our forefathers also valued the
ecological benefits of trees which would benefit the future generations.
3. The City needs to protect the remaining trees in the urban area to maintain
the ecological, social, and historical values of trees.
2. Damage - the removal of any part, dislocation of the main trunk, or any
injury that compromises the tree's health, structural integrity, and/or over-all
aesthetics as per accepted national forestry standards.
3. DEI{R- Department ofEnvironment and Natural Resources.

8. Percon - an individual, firm, association, tree removal service, corporation,
and its agents, officers, employees, or representatives.
9. Private property - shall refer to property or properties not owned by the
city or any other government instrumentalities. For purposes of this ordinance, it
shall include, but not limited to, all private lands covered by original certificate of
Title (OCD; Transfer Certificate of Title (ICI); including Certificate of Land
Ownership Award (CLOA); Tax-declared Alienable and Disposable lands of the
Public Domain with pending application for tiuing through administrative or
judicial process; and areas under a valid tenurial or land management,
occupancy, or allocation instrument issued by government authorities.
10. Protected Non-heritage trees - a group of mature trees classified as such
under this Ordinance which include trees within parks, avenues, public spaces,
and/or islands, forest and mangrove parks, tree reserves and ecologically
important zones identified in the Zoning ordinance such as urban Ecological
Enhancement Sub-Zones; Conservation Zones; protection Forest Zone; inland
wetlands or lakes; waterway and coastal easements; and buffer zones, whether
in a public land or private property. It does not include trees in tree plantation
developments or fees allowed to be harvested under DENR policies.
11. Public lands - lands that are not deemed private property as defined under
SECTION 3 (9) hereof.
12. Urtan - scope refening to the Central Business Disfict (CBD) poblacion,
Agdao, Buhangin, Talomo; and including major urban districts in Toril, Calinan,
Tugbo( Bunawan, Davao City.
13. Urban Trees Protection Plan (UTpp) - a plan that will map and define
action points geared towards the protection and management of identified
heritage trees and non-heritage trees within the City. Such plan will be
developed within a year after the enactrnent of this Ordinance.
SECTION 4. CRITERIA FOR IDENTIFYING HERITAGE TREES - Trees with
any of the following status are deemed HERITAGE TREES of the City:
1. Old-Aged - any tree species with documents, recordings, assessed, or
verified to be more than 50 years old.
Ord. No. 0784-21
2. Critical Consen ation Status - any tree species that have the following
status regardless of size:
a. Critically Endangered
b. Endangered or Near-threatened listed under the DENR Administrative
Order 2017-11 or IUCN appendix ofspecies
c. Endemic to the country or region.
3' Historical & cultural value - a mature tree that has historical significance
as per documents, recordings, a historical landmar( or that has provided the
citizens or the community with cultural importance.
4. Aesthetic/Architectural Value - a mature tree, intentionally preserved
through a landscape or architectural design, or has provided aesthetical value
for an area, building, establishment, or structure.

Ord. No. 0784-21
5. Large Size - ail other mature tree of more than THREE (3) meters girth
(trunk circumference).
_- - _ ^SE!IIgN 5. CRITERIA F9R I-DJI{TIFYING PROTECTED NON. H E RITAG E
TREES - The following are deemed pnOft
ty:
1. Trees within parks, prazas, promenades, center rsrands, Riverbanks -
These include the protection of all individual trees within 'parks, plazas,
Promenades, center Islands, Riverbanks, and designated open spu.e, whether
privately or publicly-owned or managed.
2. Tree-lined Avenues - These include the protection of all individual trees
along avenues such as, but not limited to:
a. Roxas Avenue;
b. Dacudao Avenue;
c. Ecoland Drive; and
d. Ecoland-Tulip Drive.
3. Tree reserves - protection of all individual trees within protected areas,
conservation areas and other ecologically imporunt zones identified in the
Zoning Ordinance.
SECTIOI{ 6. TREE.PROTECTION MECHATTIISM FOR HERTTAGE TREES
ailD-EBorEcrED NON'HERTTAGE TREES - Hertage Treii ano-proteEil ttonHeritage Trees, whether on a private property or on a public land, are protected trees.
The maintenance and protection ofthese trees is paramount.
However, when the eafth-balling, cutting, and/or utilization of the said trees may
be allowed, any certificate of no objection to the earth-balling, cutting, and/or utilization
of the said trees may only be issued by the city Mayor or an offtcer duly authorized by
the city Mayor, upon the recommendation of the parks system Board and which
recommendation shall only be issued upon showing compliance with the provisions of
this ordinance or the presence of a circumstance allowing the activity under existing
laws.
Provided further, that the watershed Management council of the city shall
exercise jurisdiction and shall continue to exercise its mandate, powers and functions
over specific zones or areas defined under the Watershed Code ofthe City.
SECTION 7. ALt OTHER TREES - All other trees, whether on a private
property or on a public land, shall also be maintained and protected and may only be
earth-balled, cut, and utilized in accordance with this ordinance, existing national liws,
and DENR policies.
SECTION 8. PROCEDURE FOR tGU ENDORSEMENT OF NO OBJECTION
To rREE currING -In cases of application for cutting permits ror tne cutting of a
Heritage Tree or a Protected Non-Heritage Tree to be issued by DEN& which requires
Provided, applicants for the said certificate of no objection shall present the
extreme necessity of the earth-balling or cutting activity; exhaustion of engineering
interventions; and an undertaking to plant new trees, preferably within the area, in
addition to the replenishment requirement of DENR.

Ord. No. 0784-2L
the prior approval or endorsement of no objection ftom the city or any of the barangay
local government units of Davao city, the said application ror ipprovat or endorsement
of no objection shall be acted upon through the office of the city Mayor in compliance
with SECTION 6 hereof.
Applicauons for endorsements of no objection to the cutting of all other trees not
classified as either a Heritage Tree or a protected Non-Heritage iree may be issued by
the barangay and validated by the city Environment and Natural Resources ffice. For
this purpose, barangays shall require applicants to secure a prior ceftification from the
city Environment and Natural Resources office for the determination of the tree
classification and a certification of non-coverage under SECTION 6 of this ordinance,
when applicable.
This ordinance shall not be in derogation of the powers of national agencies on
the issuance of permits and licenses under their authority, however, all applications for
endorsements of no objection to the cutting of trees covered by this oidinance shall
comply with the procedures and regulations provided herein, unless otherwise
exempted under national laws.
SECTION 9. PROHIBITED ACTMTIES - It shalt be prohibited for any
person, natural or juridical, to intentionally commit the fiollowing prohibited acts within
the jurisdiction of the City of Davao:
a. Cutting, earth-balling, destroying, or poisoning of trees through the
application of any harmful herbicide or any other harmful chemicals;
b. Spilling, washing off, or directing liquid contaminated with oil,
petroleum, paint, cement, mortar, or the like, onto the root zone of any tree;
c. Ringbarking any tree or the scarring of its bark when operating any
machinery;
d. Affixing any object (such as a sign) on any tree found using nails,
staples, wires, or fastening materials that significantly restrict the normal
vascular function of the trunk or branches of trees, except when for horticulfure
purposes;
e. Causing damage to any tree by destroying the tree's root zone through
compaction, excavation, or asphyxiation (including filling or stockpiling it with
materials);
f. Harming of any tree including the plants and animals that live within
orlare interdependent on the said tree for their survival, including mammals,
birds, reptiles, and/or ferns.
The city Mayor may issue the neceslnry issuances to this effect for the effective
implementation of this Ordinance,
SECTIOI{ 10. EXCEPTIONS - The following acts shall not be covered by the
prohibitions under SECTION t hereof and shall not be a violation of this ordinance:
a. Earth-balling, or cutting and utilization of Heritage Trees and protected
Non-Heritage Trees upon compliance with SECTION 6 hereof, DENR regulations,

Ord. No. 0784-21
and existing nauonal laws or when necessary in times of e)Creme emergency in
order to save lives;
c. Pruning and trimming of trees to remove obsffuctions on legal
easements;
d. All other activities allowed under DENR regulations, and existing
national laws for public or private purpose or when necessry in times of
e)Greme emergency in order to save lives.
SECTIOil 11. SPECIAL PROVISIOT{ - Consistent with SECTION 26 and SECTION
27 of the Local Government Code and unless otherwise specifically provided under
existing laws, all eafth-balling or cutting of a Heritage Tree or a Protected Non-Heritage
Tree, whether in a public land or private property, for a government inftastructure
project, shall at all times be with prior specific information given to and proper
coordination with the City Mayor or an officer duly authorized by the City Mayor. It
shall, however, be the policy of the City that Government infrastructure projects must
be planned so as to preserye all Heritage Trees and Protected Non-Heritage Trees and
all mature trees on public and private lands, parks, plazas, promenades, center islands,
heritage sites, historical sites, protected areas, conservation areas, riverbanks in the
SECTION 12. MONITORING At{D IMPLEMENTATION . ThC DAVAO PArKS
System Board, created under *ction 6 of Ordinance No. 0218{9, otherwise known as
the "Davao City Parks System Ordinance" responsible in formulating plans, policies and
courses of action for the standard and singular maintenance of all public parks, plazas,
promenades, center islands, heritage sites, historical sites, protected areas,
conservation areas, riverbanks and memorials within the City of Davao, shall have the
primary responsibility of formulating plans, policies and courses of action to ensure the
effective implementation of this Ordinance. Specifically, the Parks System Board, in
addition to its existing functions, in order to fully implement this Ordinance, shall:
2. Cause the installation of labels/signages within the periphery of every
recognized "Heritage Trees" and in areas with "Protected Non-Heritage Trees" to
indicate the following information :
a. Scientific name;
b. Local name;
c. Approximate age;
d. Location of the tree;
e. Other relevant information regarding the tree/s.
b. Earth-balling, or cutting and utilization of all other trees not classified as
either a Heritage Tree or a Protected Non-Heritage Tree for public safety upon
compliance with DENR regulations and existing national laws;
1. Introduce measures in order for the City to identiry and maintain a list of all
"Heritage Trees" in the City of Davao and also identify and declare areas with
"Protected Non-Heritage Trees" including the conduct of a yearly monitoring
inspection to maintain said trees and to update the list if there are newly
discovered "Heritage Eees" and "Protected Non-Heritage Trees". The Board may
declare potential heritage trees through public nomination based on the criteria
provided under SECTION 4 ofthis Ordinance.

Ord. No. 0784-2L
3. Recommend to the City Mayor or the officer authorized by the City Mayor the
approval and issuance of clearances or endorsements of no objection or the
denial thereof in accordance with the provisions of this Ordinance.
4. Develop an Urban Trees Protection Plan (UTPp) within a year after the
enactment of this Ordinance as part of the policies and procedures for the
unitary parameter of all Parks, Plazas, Promenades, Center Islands, Riverbanks,
and designated open spaces for their proper preservation and regulation, for the
furtherance of the ecological balance of the community.
SECTION 13. COMPOSITION OF THE DAVAO CITY PARKS SYSTEM
MANAGEMEilT BOARD - In order to effectively implement the provisions of this
Ordinance, the composition of the Davao City Parks System Board created under
SECTION 6 of Ordinance No. 0218-09, otherwise known as the "Davao City parks System
Ordinance" is hereby amended to include:
Chairperson: City Mayor or a duly designated representative;
Members:
Department Head, City Environment and Natural Resources Office;
Chairperson, SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod Committee on Environment and
Natural Resources;
Chairperson, SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod Committee on Tourism and
Beautification;
City Planning and Development Coordinator;
City Tourism Officer;
City Engineer;
City Legal Offtcer;
Interim Office of the City Architect;
Peoples'Park Manager;
Representative from the Liga ng mga Barangay;
Representative from the Davao City Culture and Arts Council;
Representative ftom the Department of Environment and Natural Resources;
Representative from the Department of Public Works and Highways;
Representauve from a Non-Governmental Organization representing the
Private Sector.
SECTION L4. VOLUI{TARY PRIVATE AGREEMENTS INVOTVING
HERITAGE TREES AND PROTECTED NON.HERITAGE TREES ON PRIVATE
PROPERTY - Any Heritage Tree and Protected Non-Heritage Tree that has been
identified and found within a private property may be covered by a written agreement
'between the lot owner and the City Government, stating among others, that the
property owner had voluntarily approved the tree to be declared as a Heritage Tree or
-Protected Non-Heritage Tree under this Ordinance.
As such, if the property owner decides to develop the land for commercial or any
purpose, the declared Heritage Tree or Protected Non-Heritage Tree shall be preserved
by incorporating it to the development/architectural design. The property owner shall
be entitled to incentives which may be developed by the Parks System Board. For this
purpose, the Parks System Board shall endorse to the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod an
incentive scheme for adoption and approval.
SECTION 15. PEITALTIES - Unless otherwise exempted by the provisions of
this Ordinance and existing laws, any person or entity committing the prohibited acts

mentioned under SECTION t hereof shall be punished with a fine of Five Thousand Pesos
(PhP5,000.00) and/or imprisonment of not more than one (1) year at the discretion of
the court.
If the offense is committed by a corporation, partnership, or other juridical entity
duly recognized in accordance with law, the Chief Executive Officer, president, general
manager, managing partner or such other officer-in-charge shall be liable for the
commission of the offense and shall be penalized under this Ordinance.
SECTION 16. EDUCATIOI{ AND INFORMATION - The CENRO, City
Information Office in coordination with the Division of City Schools and DENR, shall
undertake a massive information/education campaign for the effective implementation
of the Ordinance.
SECTIONlT. IMPTEMENTING RUTES AND REGULATIONS (IRR) -ThC CitY
Mayor or any designated committee or body duly authorized by the City Mayor may
formulate the Implementing Rules and Regulations necessary to carry out the effective
and efficient implementation and enforcement of the provisions of this Ordinance.
Provided that, absence of the Implementing Rules and Regulations (IRR) shall not
prevent the effectivity and enforcement of this Ordinance.
SECTION 18. REPEALII{G CI-AUSE - All ordinances, executive orders
inconsistent with this Ordinance are hereby deemed repealed and/or modified, and
amended accordingly.
SECTION 19. SEPARABITITY CLAUSE - If for any reason or reasons any
provision of this Ordinance is declared unconstitutional by a competent court, other
provisions which are not affected shall continue to be in full force and effect.
E]{ACTED, November 23,202L, by a unanimous vote of all the Members of the
Sanggunian, there being a quorum.
CERTIFIED CORRECTI
^Uqrt,\h
cflri'iffdn){ril?os
Secretary to the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod
(City Government Department Head tfl.
ATTESTED:
. UNGAB
City Councilor
Temporary Presiding Officer
cns/johanna
Ord. No. 0784-2L
SECTION 20. EFFECIVITY - This Ordinance shall take effect fifteen (15) days
after posting and complete publication in a newpaper of general circulation in the City
of Davao.

t-n
Dtl
JA
Ord. No. 0784-2L
tt l? 2
202t
SARA Z, DUTERTE
, city Mayor_v
Nllm
APPROVED:
Z.
oty
DUTERIE
r'tyor 9
ATTESTED:
Administrator
AN ORDINANCE PR.OTESNNG HERITAGE TRE6 AND ALL OTHER TREES IN THE CITY OF DAVAO
AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES