'lSHf,#*+
Ref. No. CAdO-2021-00672
.T[rtt:
2Nd INDORSEMENT
March I0,202t
Respectfully returned to Ms. Charito N. Santos, Secretary to the SANGGUNIANG
Panlungsod, this City, the within Legal Opinion No. 210, SERIES of 202t dated February
24, 202L from the City Legal Office, relative to the Ordinance No. 0478-21, SERIES of
202I, entitled, *AN ORDINANCE FOR THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE COVID-19
IMMUNIZATION PROGRAM OF DAVAO CffY", with the information that the enactment of
the same is well within the powers of the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod citing SECTION Ll of
the Republic Act 7160 otherwise known as the Local Government Code of 1991, for your
appropriate action.
For the City Mayor:
ATTY. TRISTAN
DOMINGO
Assistant
ai
r
(Administration)
1t7m
o8i - o\-?o?-{
CITY MAYOR,S OFFICE
CORRESPOilDTIIG A}tD REORDS DIV
RE LEAS ED
ADMINISTRATIVE AIDE
ffi
m
@N{TACTh
Second Floor, City Hall Building, City Hall Drive, San Pedro St., Davao City
(082) 224-3004 o (082) 241-1000 loc. 265 o davaocitymayor@gmail.com
BAW.@
LIFE IS HERE
'.' i'.
Republib ofihe Philippihgs ,'
OrrtCE OF THE CITY Nneyorc
Y
t-{I\R 1 1
480 -t'
6:wt-

\
I
VED
tv L:t)$
AIID
_
Republic of fte Philippines
OFFICE OF THE CITY LEGAL
R
Tel. No.29&.6970
Trunk Line No. 241-1000 l.cr, 267*225*230
davaocitylegal@gmai l.com
Ref. No. CLO-2
. 210
SERIES OF 2021
RE: ORDINANCE NO. 0478-21 SERIES OF 2O2L ENTITLED
*AN ORDINANCE FOR THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE
COVID-lg IMMUNIZATION PROGRAM OF DAVAO CITY"
1'I INDORSEMENT
February 24,202L
Respectfully forwarded to the Office of the City Mayor, through the Office
of the City Administrator, both this City, the herein Ordinance No. 0478-21,
SERIES of 2A21, informing your end that the enactment of the same is well within
the powers of the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod citing SECTION L7 of the of Republic
Act 7160 otherwise known as the Local Government Code of 1991, to wit:
SECTION L7. Easic Seruices and Facilities. -
(a) Local government units shall endeavor to be self-reliant and shall
continue exercising the powers and discharging the duties and
functions currently vested upon them. They shall also discharge the
functions and responsibilities of national agencies and offices
devolved to them pursuant to this Code. Local government units shall
likewise exercise such other powers and discharge such other
functions and responsibilities as are necessary, appropriate, or
incidental to efficient and effective provisions of the basic seruices.
VIEWED FROM THE FOREGOING, it is recommended that the
Ordinance be approved.
Respectful ly submitted.
ATTY. OSMUN
P. VILLANUEVA, JR.
Date of approval: February 24,2021
Asst. City Legal Officer
Officer-In-Charge
otw 0[E{E e$!
tsTEBffi.I
0ffi*{l
efHEIsr
NffiEUE
lO:'tiot*
WU-oOu'lL
RECEIVED
DATE:
TIME:
MAR 0 2 ?021
I
/
f
tDe-?-1tr

.l
SARA Z. DUTERTE
City Mayor
Madam:
to
February tB,202l
Wqxl-cr)
ffi
CORRESPONDEIICT & iECORDS o,*#dn
RECEIVED
FEB 1 9 ?C?I
cMo
Pursuant to Sub-SECTION 3, Paragraph C, SECTION 469, Article One, Title Five,
Chapter 3, Book III and SECTION 54 Book I of Republic Act No. 7160, otherwise known
as the Local Government Code of 1991, we are furnishing you a copy of Resolution No.
O2O94-21 and Ordinance No. O478-2L. both SERIES of 2021 of the SANGGUNIANG
Panlungsod, for the implementation of the COVID-19 Immunization Program of Davao
City, for your information, guidance and appropriate action.
Very truly yours,
CHARITO N. SANTOS
Secretary to the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod
(City Government Department Head II)
tuubirDlttqW
-l<-/
n^. II{EREXh r ffil
trp6ailotrlief$gdtl&f
MARY
ALVARADO
rv

'Republic of the Philippines
19th City Council
5h Regular Session
SERIES of 202L
PRESENT:
Councilor
Councilor
Counciior
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
,^^,,-^ilar-uut tLilrJt
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
ABSENT:
Vice Mayor Sebastian Z. Dutefte
- On Official Business
ORDINANCE NO. O478.2I
SERIES of 2O2L
AN ORDINANCE FOR THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE COVID.19
IMMUNIZATION PROGRAM OF DAVAO CITY
Edgar P. Ibuyan Jr.
- Temporary Presiding Officer
Ralph O. Abella
Niio D. Abellera
Maria Belen S. Acosta
Bai Hundra Cassandra Dominique N. Advincula
Wilbefto E. Al-ag
Dante L. Apostol Sr.
Conrado C. Baluran
Jessica M. Bonguyan
Louie John J. Bonguyan
Pilar C. Braga
Augusto Javier G. Campos III
Danilo C. Dayanghirang
Jonard C. Dayap
Edgar R. Ibuyan Sr.
Richlyn N. lustol-Baguilod
Pamela A. Librado-Morata
Diosdado Angelo Junior R. Mahipus
Jaffar U. Mai'ohomsalic
Bonifacio E. Militar
Myrna G. L'Dalodo-Oftiz
Antoinette G. Principe-Castrodes
J. Melchor B. Quitain Jr.
Albefto T. Ungab
Mary Joselle D. Villafuerte
Jesus Joseph P.Zozobrado III

Ord. No. 0478-27
Be it ordained by the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod of Davao City in session assembled,
that:
SECTION 1. TITLE - This Ordinance shall be known as the "COVID-l9
IMMUNIZATION PROGRAM OF DAVAO CITY'.
SECTION 2. DECLARATION OF POUCY - The fight against COVID-19
requires a whole-of-government and whole-of-society approach. The shared
responsibility of national government agencies, local government units, various sectors
of society, especially communities and individuals, is a necessary exercise to prevent the
transmission of the virus. While vaccine is among the solutions, it is not the only solution
to end the pandemic. Continued adherence to minimum public health standards, effective
surueillance and disease management as well as capability-building to weather future
public health emergencies is a must.
It is hereby declared a policy of the State to take a proactive role in the health care
of its citizens. Towards this end, the State shall adopt a comprehensive immunization
program for COVID-19 in Davao City (thereafter known as the "Program") which shall
cover all its residents, ensuring that the promise of normalization of everyday life is
achieved.
SECTION 3. DEFINITION OF TERMS - The terms used in this Ordinance are
herein defined as follows:
a) Adverse Events Following Immunization (AEFI)- any untoward medical occurrence
which follows immunization and which does not necessarily have a causal relationship
with the usage of the vaccine. The adverse event may be any unfavorable or unintended
sign, abnormal laboratory finding, symptom or disease.
b) Adverse Events of Special Interest (AESI)- a pre-identifled and predetermined
medically-significant event that has the potential to be causally associated with a vaccine
product that needs to be carefully monitored and confirmed by fufther specific studies.
c) Ancillary immunization supplies - supplies other than the vaccine itself, which is used
to administer the vaccine, and includes Personal Protective Equipment (PPEs), autodisabled needles and syringes, mixing syringes, Safety Collector Boxes (SCB), and others.
d) Cold chain management - is a logistics management process for vaccines that
require refrigerated temperatures. It involves performing a chain of tasks to prepare,
store, and transport products along the cold supply chain. Failure to keep vaccines under
the required cold conditions will render them unusable, leading to spoilage and wastage.
For COVID-l9 vaccines, required refrigeration ranges from +Boc to as low as -B0oc.
e) Coronavirus (COVID-19) - a large family of viruses causing a range of illnesses, from
the common cold to more serious infections such as those caused by Middle East
Respiratory Syndrome-related Coronavirus (MERS-CoV) and Severe Acute Respiratory
Syndrome-related Coronavirus (SARS-CoV). In 2019, the appearance of a new strain of
coronavirus that has not been previously identified in humans was recorded. On 12
February 2020, the World Health Organization (WHO) announced that the novel disease
is officially called Coronavirus Disease 19 or COVID-19, and the virus infecting it is
referred to as COVID-19 virus.
0 COVID-19 vaccine - a vaccine intended to provide acquired imrnunity against
covrD-19.

Ord. Ncr. 0478-2L
g) Emergency Use Authorization (EUA) - a mechanism to facilitate the availability and
use of medical counter measures, including vaccines, during public health emergencies,
such as the current COVID-19 pandemic. Under the EUA, the Philippine Food and Drug
Administration (FDA) may allow the use of unapproved medica! products, or unapproved
uses of approved medical products in an emergency to diagnose, treat, or prevent serious
or life-threatening diseases or conditions when certain statutory criteria under FDA
Circular No. 2020-036 have been met, considering that there are no adequate, approved,
and available alternatives.
h) Herd immunity - a form of indirect protection from infectious disease that occurs
when a sufficient percentage of a population has become immune to an infection,
whether through vaccination or previous infections, thereby reducing the likelihood of
infection for individuals who lack immunity.
i) Immunization - The process by which an individual's immune system becomes
fortified against an agent (or antigen), most commonly gained through vaccination. Also
terms used interchangeably with immunization: "inoculation" and "vaccination." This
means the use of vaccine-induced immunity in a person against a vaccine-preventable
disease.
j) Informed consent - permission granted in the knowledge of the possible
consequences, typically that which is given by a patient to a doctor/medical practitioner
for treatment/interuention with full knowledge of the possible risks and benefits.
k) Pandemic - an epidemic occurring worldwide, or over a very wide area, crossing
international boundaries and usually affecting a large number of people. The classical
definition includes nothing about population immunity, virology or disease severity.
l) Vaccines - biological preparations which stimulate the body's own immune system to
protect the person against subsequent infection or disease. Vaccines as defined in this
Ordinance shall be limited to those produced against COVID-19.
m) Vulnerable groups/population - refers to, but is not limited to those who are
incapable of protecting their own interests such as pregnant women, neonates, children,
fetuses, prisoners, physically handicapped, mentally challenged, economically
disadvantaged, institutionalized and very sick patients, etc.
SECTION 4. SCOPE AND COVERAGE - This Ordinance applies to all residents
of Davao City and to other non-residents who may be found within the territorial
jurisdiction of the City during the effectivity of the Program. Such persons may be deemed
included by local health authorities, as circumstances so require.
The particular age, gender and other requirements shall be based on the guidelines
set by the national government through the Depaftment of Health (DOH), Inter-Agency
Task Force in the Management of Emerging Diseases (IATF), and the NationalTask Force
Against COVID-19 (NTF).
SECTION 5. ASSESSMENT OF THE LOCAL SITUATION FOR COVID.lg
IMMUNIZATION - In order to properly implement the Ordinance, the conduct of a full
assessment of the COVID-l9 situation in the City is to be performed prior to the
finalization of a vaccine procurement, distribution and administration plan.
Also required under this SECTION is a concurrent immunization and postimmunization monitoring and assessment protocol to be conducted by the COVID-19
Immunization Task Force and the AEFI Committee.

Ord. No. 0478-21
SECTION 6. FORMULATION OF A COMMUNITY-BASED COVID-l9
IMMUNIZATION PLAN. The City of Davao shall follow a community-based framework
in executing the Program.This framework shall treat barangays and other community
subsets as active paftners in program execution in order to ensure thorough immunization
coverage of persons, adequate and equitable access to the vaccine, and proper postimmunization attention and monitoring. The City Health Office (CHO) and the Depaftment
of Health Center for Health Development Davao (DOH-CHD Davao) shall create this
framework with input from other frontline agencies.
Fufthermore, as the Program requires a whole-of-society approach, pafticipating
agencies and the private sector are also enjoined to closely coordinate with the local
government in the implementation of the Program.
sEcTIoN7.@-TheCHoshallbetheleadagencyinthe
implementation of the COVID-19 immunization program. It shall identiff and train health
workers for the purpose of vaccine handling, storage and administration, as well as other
aspects of the Program. All vaccinators should be adequately trained. No immunization
shall be performed by untrained/uncertified/unauthorized personnel. Any unauthorized
administering of vaccine shall be punishable by this Ordinance and other applicable laws.
The COVID-l9 Electronic Immunization Registry (CEIR) shall be the official platform
for masterlisting and registration for COVID-19 vaccination. All health facilities (hospitals,
vaccination centers, etc.) within the city shall submit its own masterlist through the CEIR,
which will be consolidated by the CHO, who shall ensure that there will be no duplication
in masterlists across facilities within their catchment.
Every person vaccinated under this Ordinance shall be given an immunization card
which shall reflect the date of immunization, the immunization round/dose received, and
other peftinent details. This same data shall also be recorded in the CEIR. Proof of
vaccination and subsequent receipt of immunization card shall not mean exemption from
continued strict obseruance of basic health protocols. The identity of the person
vaccinated and other required information shall be recorded and kept by the CHO for
documentation, archiving and other similar purposes. Information shall also be used for
other post-immunization concerns but shall remain private and confidential. In this
regard, an efficient method of record-keeping shall be developed which shall ensure a
streamlined delivery of the vaccine and detailed record-keeping of persons vaccinated
and doses administered. Informed consent form shall be distributed in Program areas,
and no person shall be vaccinated without first submitting a duly-accomplished informed
consent form.
Since specific COVID-19 vaccine types may require multiple doses to achieve full
efficiency and effectivity, multiple immunization rounds may be implemented, thus the
need for careful record-keeping and documentation. Persons thus vaccinated are required
to be given the full vaccine regimen (multiple doses as required by the manufacturer) for
full effect.
SECTION 8.
- Only vaccines with
Emergency Use Approval (EUA) and/or Ceftificate of Product Registration (CPR) issued
by the Philippine Food and Drug Administration (FDA) shall be selected and procured for
the Program. In line, with vaccine procurement, ancillary immunization supplies shall be
acquired as well, and, as much as possible, should be delivered earlier than the vaccines
themselves.

Ord. No.'0478-21
SECTION 9.
- Existing
supply chain systems shall be updated to cope with the additional requirements for
storage and distribution of vaccines under the Program. While the specific logistical
requirements associated with each vaccine may be different and shall be applied as
necessary, the general roadmap is as follows: (a) vaccine is received from manufacturer,
(b) vaccine is stored in a temperature controlled storage facility fit for the purpose, and
(c) vaccines are prepared for distribution to vaccine locations. Storage of the vaccines
shal! be centralized and managed based on the guidelines set by DOH and the vaccine
supplier.
CHD Davao and the Local Government shall develop a distribution plan appropriate
to the specific requirements in its jurisdiction, which shall be consolidated by the National
COVID-19 Task Force in order to come up with a comprehensive national cold chain and
logistics plan for COVID-19 immunization.
SECTION 10. VACCINE PRIORITIZATION AND PRIORIW ELIGIBLE
GROUPS - The implementation of actual immunization shall be in phases, depending on
the delivery (timing, available doses, logistica! requirements) of vaccines to the country.
Deployment shall be based on a sectora! approach within each priority group. As much
as possible, the guidelines in the Philippine National Deployment and Vaccination Plan for
COVID-19 Vaccines shall be followed, to wit:
I. Priority Eligible Group A
a. Frontline health workers from the private and public sector currently on active
practice/seruice, regardless if permanent, contractual, job-order, and/or
outsourced employees or staff;
b. Indigent Senior Citizens registered and as determined by the Department of
Social Welfare and Development (DSWD);
c. Remaining Senior Citizens - ALL senior citizens (not categorized as indigent)
registered and as determined by DSWD;
d. Remaining Indigent Population as determined by DSWD;
e. All enlisted uniformed personnel in active seruice under the Armed Forces of
the Philippines (AFP), Philippine National Police (PNP), Philippine Coast Guard
(PCG), Bureau of Fire Protection (BFP) and the Citizen Armed Force
Geographical Unit (CAFGU),
II. Priority Eligible Group B
a. All teachers and school workers, whether permanent, job-order, contractual or
outsourced in all educational levels, from primary, secondary, teftiary, and
vocational educational institutions, both private and public;
b. All government workers, whether permanent, job-order, contractual or outsourced, in national government agencies, Government-Owned and Controlled
Corporations (GOCCS), Government Financial Institutions (GFIs), local
government units, among others;

Ord. No. 0478-21
c. Essential workers, including all those coming from the sectors of agriculture,
forestry and flsheries; transportation; construction; food industries;
manufacturing of essential goods; tourism; essential retail; water-refilling
stations; laundry seruices; logistics seruice providers; delivery and courier
seruices; water supply and sanitation seruices; telecommunication seruices;
energy and power companies; gasoline stations, among others; and those
similarly providing basic seruices during the time of pandemic and essential to
the growth of the economy as determined by the Department of Trade and
Industry (DTI) and the Depaftment of Labor and Employment (DOLE);
d. Socio-demographic groups at significant higher risk other than senior citizens
and indigent populations (e.9. Persons Deprived of Libefi (PDLs), Persons with
Disabilities (PWDs), Indigenous Peoples, Filipinos living in high-density areas;
e. Eligible students in primary, secondary, teftiary, and vocational educationa!
institutions, upon the recommendations of the World Health Organization (WHO)
and the National Immunization Technical Advisory Group (NffAG);
f. Filipino migrant workers who reside in another country for a limited period of
employment that were not vaccinated;
g. All remaining Filipino workforce as determined by DOLE, DTI and Civil Seruice
Commission (CSC);
III. Priority Eligible Group C
a. All remaining Filipino citizens not mentioned in Groups A and B
These priority groups may be subject to other considerations based on the latest
developments and scientific evidence and may be revised as reflected in the Philippine
COVID-19 National Vaccine Deployment Plan.
For purposes of herd immunity, the Immunization Program shall continue to run until at
least 70 to 85 percent of the population in the City is immunized. Within the City, the
deployment of vaccines to specific areas, districts, and barangdys, shall be based on the
burden of COVID-19 cases, using the indicators as defined by NITAG, to wit:
a. number of active cases in recent four (4) weeks
b. attack rate per 100,000 in recent four (4) weeks
SECTION 11. HUMAN RESOURCE MANAGEMENT AND TRAINING - A human
resource management and training plan shall be developed in conjunction with DOH to
ensure that there is a sufficient number of human resources available for the
implementation of this Program. The WHO and other partner organizations shall be
tapped to support the capability-building activities and initiatives required for proper
Program implementation.
SECTION 12. EXEMPTIONS AND EXCLUSIONS. - Exempt/excluded from the
coverage of this Ordinance are:
a. Those who are declared by appropriate medical professionals to have any
allergies or found to exhibit adverse reactions to vaccines;
b. Those with prevailing medical conditions and were advised to refrain from
immunization;
c. Those persons covered by contraindication clauses made by vaccine
manufacturers and suppliers of the respective vaccines;
d. Those who object based on religious and cultural grounds;

Ord. No. 0478-21
e. All those who are exempted as provided for by other laws or statutes;
f. Those who object based on philosophical grounds and those who choose not
to be immunized; and
g. Those who have availed or plan to avail of COVID-19 immunization through
other means;
Such facts should be disclosed by the party claiming exemption.
SECTION 13. CREATION OF THE COVID-lg IMMUNIZATION PROGRAM
TASK FORCE AND LOCAL VACCINATION OPERATIONS CENTER - A COVID-l9
Immunization Program Task Force shall be created which shall oversee the planning and
implementation of the Program. The Task Force shall have a core group composed of the
following:
A. City Mayor
B. City Health Officer
C. DOH CHD XI
D. SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod Committee on Health Chairperson
E. Liga ng mga Barangay
F. 3 Representatives from the Health Sector
G. 3 Representatives from the Private Sector
To aid the functions of the core group, the following shall be called up as resource persons
on a per-need basis:
A. Representative of Faith-based Organizations
B. Southeastern Mindanao Governor of the Philippine Medical Association
C. Presidents of all Medical Specialty and Subspecialty Societies
D. Representative from each vaccine manufacturer
E. Indigenous Peoples representative
F. Civil Society representative
G. Business sector representative
H. Infectious Diseases Consultant
I. PediatricSpecialistConsultant
J. Food and Drug Administration representative
The Task Force shall make regular repofts to the public through proper government
channels on the planning, execution, progress and other necessary disclosures. These
regular reports will be the result of close monitoring and assessment of the immunization
program by relevant member agencies of the Task Force. The Task Force shall remain
constituted and functional until COVID-19 vaccines have moved on from the EUA stage
into general use.
Fufthermore, a Local COVID-19 Vaccination Operations Center shall be organized
to complement the COVID-l9 Vaccine Operations Center (VOC), and shall be composed
of the following:
A. Planning, Campaign Management and Technical Team composed of
representatives from the DOH-CHD Davao, CHO, DILG, DSWD, DepEd, AFP;
B. Finance, Cold Chain and Logistics Team with representatives from the Office
of Civil Defense (OCD), DOH, AFP;
C. Coordination Team with representatives from OCD, DOH-CHD Davao, DILG
and Barangays;
D. Vaccine Safety, Surueillance and Response Team with representatives from
the DOH-CHD Davao, CHO, and FDA;

Page B of 11
Ord. No. 0478-2L
E. Communications, Advocacy and Partnership Team with representatives from
the City Information Office, the Philippine Information Agency (PIA), DOH,
and other media stakeholders.
The specific duties of the aforementioned teams shall be based on the guidelines
set in the National Deployment and Vaccination Plan for COVID-l9 Vaccines.
SECTION 14. CREATION OF A LOCAL ADVERSE EVENTS FOLLOWING
rMt4uNrzATroN (AEFr) COMMTTTEE SPECTFTC TO COVIp-19 IMMUNIZATION
- A local AEFI Committee shall be created, whose role is to respond to any adverse events
following immunization through repofting, monitoring, surueillance, cross-agency
collaboration, and other coordinated modes.
The composition of the AEFI/AESI Committee shall be taken from the following
fields of expertise:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
Pediatrics
Neurology
Vi rology/Microbiology
Epidemiology
Immunology
Forensic Pathology
Other medical expefts (as necessary), may include
a. Geriatrics
b. Adult Medicine
c. Infectious disease
Membership shall be subject to a Non-Disclosure and Confidentiality Agreement
The roles and functions of the AEFI/AESI committee are as follows:
1. Review all reported serious and cluster of minor AEFI cases presented for expert
opinion and provide the flnal causality assessment of the AEFI cases. The National AEFI
Committee will provide the final causality of AEFI cases including those that were not
classifled by the Regional AEFI Committee.
2. Ensure evidence-based causality assessment by recommending fufther
investigation and data collection as needed.
3. Make final decisions on causality assessment of inconclusive investigations.
4. Ensure that standard protocols for AEFI surueillance and investigation are
correctly followed,
5. Engage with other national expefts when requirements arise in establishing
causality and vaccine quality issues.
6. Provide recommendations to the CHO and DOH XI, Epidemiology Bureau, and
Food and Drug Administration (FDA) on improving immunization service delivery,
compliance with injection safety and effective vaccine management based on lessons
from the AEFI cases.
7. Serue as technical advisory group to the CHO on vaccine and immunization
safety-related issue(s) of highest consideration including immediate recall of vaccine
and/or temporary/permanent withdrawal of a vaccine from the immunization program.

Ord. No. 0478-27
B. Serue as resource person in other AEFI related meetings, conferences or
capacity-building activities as requested.
While all relevant documents, data and records may be shared and reviewed
among other AEFI/AESI committees and the National Adverse Events Following
Immunization Committee (NAEFIC) for assessment, evaluation, and other purposes,
information gathered is protected against public disclosure by RA 10173 or the Data
Privacy Act of 20t2. Furthermore, no committee member shall disclose any information
outside of meetings, other than to the mandated agency or parties concerned. Public
statements about the causality assessment, especially relating to AEFI/AESI deaths may
be made as long as confidentiality is maintained.
All other details not covered in this SECTION shall be supplied by the prevailing
AEFI/AESI guidelines in force.
AEFI cases under the jurisdiction of the committee shall not only be restricted to
those connected with the Program but shall also include AEFI from other COVID
immunization avenues.
SECTION 15. ROLE OF COMMUNITY LEADERS AND BARANGAY HEALTH
EMERGENCY RESPONSE TEAMS (BHERD - Barangay Health Emergency Response
Teams and Community leaders shall actively assist the CHO in the implementation of the
COVID-19 immunization Program.
SECTION 16. EDUCATION AND INFORMATION CAMPAIGN. - ThiS
Ordinance shall call for a simultaneous and coordinated education and information
campaign from both the public and private sectors, including mass media, civil society
groups, religious and cultural organizations, and others. All health care practitioners
whether in the public or private sectors shall educate all persons on the facts regarding
COVID-19 immunization, including information on the entire immunization regimen, its
advantages, efficary, and the possible side effects. The Depaftment of Education (DepEd)
shall also be tasked to disseminate information regarding the Program to all students
under its jurisdiction. The education and information campaign shall commence three (3)
to six (6) months prior to the rollout of the vaccines, and will continue throughout the
three (3) year period of the program, in order to increase vaccine acceptance.
Barangay halls and health centers are also required to have information and Education
Materials placed in strategic locations for easy appreciation of information regarding the
Program. All Barangay Officials are also obligated to integrate this information campaign
in their respective areas. Religious, tribal and cultural organizations are likewise
encouraged to include information about the Program in their COVID-19 campaigns.
sEcTIoN17.ro.-TheLocalGovernmentofDavaoCityshal!
allocate funds for the implementation of the various undeftakings, including, but not
limited to, procurement of vaccines, ancillary immunization supplies, and logistical
requirements relative to this Ordinance. However, budget for other essential health
seruices should not be affected by the cost and funding requirements of this Program.
SECTION 18. NON-COMPLIANCE. - Parents and legal guardians of (minor
children) and other persons of legal age who do not intend to avail of immunization
through this Ordinance or who decide to refuse COVID-l9 immunization altogether shall
not be penalized nor be subjected to prejudice in any manner by mere non-compliance
with the provisions of this Ordinance.

Ord. No. 0478-2L
SECTION 19. PENALTIES. The following acts shall be prohibited under this
Ordinance:
a. The importation, use, distribution and administration of any unregistered or
unapproved COVID- 19 vaccine;
b. The Administration of any COVID-19 vaccine by any untrained or unauthorized
individual;
c.
The commercial sale and distribution of COVID-19 vaccines granted EUA;
d. The giving/administration of COVID-19 vaccines outside of the identified
priority groups and manufacturer recommendations.
Any violation of the prohibitions shall be punishable by imprisonment of not less
than six (6) months to one (1) year or a fine of Five Thousand Pesos (P5,000.00), or
both, at the discretion of the court.
The commencement of any action under this Ordinance is independent and without
prejudice to the filing of any action with the regular courts.
SECTION 20. SEPARABILITY CLAUSE. - If, for any reason, any SECTION or
provision of this Ordinance shall be declared unconstitutional or invalid, other sections or
provisions hereof not affected by such declaration shall continue to be in full force and
effect.
SECTION 21. REPEALING CLAUSE. - All Ordinances, Resolutions, Executive
Orders, Memoranda and Administrative Regulations or part thereof in conflict or
inconsistent with the provisions of this Ordinance are hereby repealed, amended or
modified accordingly.
SECTION 22. EFFECTMTY - This Ordinance shall take effect immediately 15
days after publication in a newspaper or general circulation in the City of Davao, and shall
remain effective until the COVID-19 vaccine is approved for general use and incorporated
in the regular immunization program of the government.
ENACTED, February 02, 2021, by a unanimous vote of all the Members of the
Sanggunian, there being a quorum.
CERTIFIED CORRECT:
cllnffiildffio,
Secretary to the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod
(City Government Depaftment HeadJI)
E
City
Temporary Presiding
cns/ray
ATTESTED:

'F
)
Ord. No. 0478-2L
APPROVED. MAR o 2 2o2l' . 2O2t
City MayorT
ATTESTED:
offi.LoPEz
City Admini3tratorr
An Ordinance for the implementation of the Covid-19 Immunization Program of Davao City