t
"l
RepUDIic of the Philippines
19th Caty Council
25th Regular Session
SERIES of 202t
PRESENT:
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
ABSENT:
Councilor Sebastian Z. Duterte
Councilor Jaffar U. Marohomsalic
Edgar P. Ibuyan Jr.
Ralph O. Abella
Nilo D. Abellera
Maria Belen S. Acosta
Bai Hundra Cassandra Dominique N. Advincula
Wilbefto E. Al-ag
Dante L. Apostol Sr.
Conrado C. Baluran
Jessica M. Bonguyan
Louie lohn J. Bonguyan
Pilar C. Braga
Augusto Javier G. Campos III
Danilo C. Dayanghirang
Jonard C. Dayap
Edgar R. Ibuyan Sr.
Richlyn N. Justol-Baguilod
Pamela A. Librado-Morata
Diosdado Angelo Junior R. Mahipus
Bonifacio E. Militar
Myrna G. L'Dalodo-Ortiz
Antoinette G. Principe-Castrodes
J. Melchor B. Quitain Jr.
Albefto T. Ungab
Mary Joselle D. Villafuefte
Jesus Joseph P. Zozobrado III
- Temporary Presiding Officer
- Acting City Mayor
- On Sick Leave
ORDINANCE NO. O634.2L
SERIES of 2O2L
AN ORDINANCE GOVERNING ABANDONED AND
DERELICT MOTOR VEHICLES WITHIN THE
TERRITORIAL JURISDICTION OF DAVAO CITY AND
PROVIDING PENALTIES THEREOF

. Page Zof 6
Ord. No. 0634-21
Be it ordained by the Honorable SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod of Davao City, in
session assembled, that:
SECTION 1. EtE- This Ordinance shall be known as the *ABANDONED
AND DERELICT MOTOR VEHICLES ORDINANCE OF DAVAO CITY".
SECTION 2. DECLARATION OF POLICY _
(a) Afticle II, SECTION 5 of the 1987 Philippine Constitution provides that
the maintenance of peace and order, the protection of life, liberty,
and propefi, and the promotion of the general welfare are essential
for the enjoyment by all the people of the blessings of democracy;
(b) It is hereby declared the policy of the city to eradicate abandoned
and derelict vehicles parked unattended in public and subdivision
roads to unclutter public roads and pathways in order for emergency
vehicles to respond freely, lessen traffic congestion, curb the number
of vehicles blocking down city streets and for the pedestrians to walk
freely and safe;
(c) SECTION 16 of Republic Act No. 7t60, othenruise known as the Local
Government Code of the Philippines state in paft that every local
government unit shall exercise the powers expressly granted, those
necessarily implied therefrom, as well as powers necessary,
appropriate, or incidental for its efficient and effective governance,
and those which are essential to the promotion of the general
welfare;
SECTION 3. SCOPE OF APPLICATION - This Ordinance shall guarantee that
public roads and private roacis will be free from all abandoned and derelict vehicles
obstructing the highways to give way to free and unhampered rescue of emergency
vehicles during emergency situation.
SECTION 4. PURPOSE - The germane purpose of promulgating this legislative
measure is to eradicate abandoned and derelict vehicles parked on a public street,
road, highway or public and private propefties to unclutter roads and pathways in order
for emergency vehicles to respond freely, lessen traffic congestion, curb the number of
vehicles blocking city streets and for pedestrians to walk freely and safe.
SECTION 5. DEFINITION OF TERMS - As used in this Ordinance, the
following terms are defined and referred as:
1. Abandoned Vehicles - refer to a motor vehicle or trailer and its contents:
a) Any unattended, wrecked, burned or paftially dismantled vehicle creating a
traffic hazard because of its position in relation to the street, alley or public
way or its physical location causing the impeding of traffic flow;

Ord. No. 0634-21
b) Parked along the street, alley or public way or upon propefi owned by the
city or any other governmental entity and the vehicle displays no license
plate or other sign of registration;
c) Parked along the street, alley or public way or upon propefi owned by the
city or any other governmental entity in the same place for a period of 48
hours; in a commercial or industrial area for a period of seven days;
d) Parked along real property other than the propefi of the owner of the
vehicle without the consent of the real propefi owner;
2. Derelict Motor Vehicles - refer to such act:
a) Refer to any motor vehicle which has been left unattended on a private
property for not less than two (2) days or in public propefi for not less than
three (3) days without the owner or driver making any attempt to recover
such vehicle or to leave a conspicuously placed note that such owner or
driver intends to return for such vehicle for recovery of possession;
b) Includes any motor vehicle which, if a conspicuous note was left has been
unattended for less than five (5) days and if because of damage, vandalism,
theft, or fire the vehicle is damaged to the extent that its restoration to an
operable condition would require the replacement of one or more major
component pafts or involves any structural damage that would affect the
safety of the vehicle;
3. Motor Vehicle - refers to any vehicle propelled by any power other than
muscular power using the public highways;
4. Driver- any person with valid driver's license driving or controlling a motor
vehicle;
5. City Traffic Citation Ticket - refers to a complaint or notice upon which the
city traffic enforcement officer shall record an occurrence involving one or more
vehicle traffic law violations by the driver or person cited;
6. Highways- shall mean every public thoroughfare, public boulevard, driveway,
avenue, park, alley and Callejon but shall not include roadway upon grounds
owned by private persons, colleges, universities, or other similar institutions;
7. Unattended Vehicle Check- refers to actions as are reasonably necessary to
determine that the unattended vehicle does not contain an injured or
incapacitated person and to determine that the unattended vehicle does not
pose a threat to public health or safety;
SECTION 6. REMOVAL OF AN ABANDONED AND DERELICT MOTOR
VEHICLE BY A TRAFFIC ENFORCER - In coordination with the Barangay Council
and the PNP-Highway Patrol Group (HPG), the CTTMO will conduct an inventory of all
abandoned and derelict motor vehicles which has been left unattended on a public
street, road, highway or other public and private properties.

Ord. No. 0634-2t
The Barangay Council upon recognition of the enlisted abandoned and derelict vehicle
Shall notify the owners to remove them frcm obstructing the public street, road,
highlvay or other public and private properties.
For a period of at least seven (7) days after the on-site conducted inventory and
notifications, the CTfMO shall cause such motor vehicle to be removed and transferred
to an impoundment garage or other place of safety if it reasonably believes that the
person who abandoned the motor vehicle does not intend to return and remove such
motor vehicle,
At any given circumstances, when the motor vehicle which has been left abandoned on
- a public street, road, highway or other public and private propefi poses a threat to the
public health or safety or to mitigate congestion, the CTTMO shall be authorized to
cause such motor vehicle to be removed immediately for transfer to a garage or other
place of safety.
SECTION 7. DUTY OF THE TRAFFIC ENFORCER TO PERFORM AN
UNATTENDED VEHICLE CHECK - It shall be the duty of any traffic officer who
discovers a motor vehicle which has been left abandoned on a public street, road,
highway or public property to immediately perform an unattended vehicle check on
such motor vehicle, unless there is displayed on such motor vehicle an unattended
vehicle check card indicating that another enforcer has already performed such
checking.
SECTION 8. DUTY OF THE TRAFFIC ENFORCER IF ABANDONED VEHICLE
IS FOUND TO BE A STOLEN VEHICLE - If any abandoned motor vehicle being
removed is determined to be a stolen motor vehicle, the CTTMO shall immediately
notify the storage facility of such determination, and shall further notify the PNPHighway Patrol Group of the location of such motor vehicle within three (3) days after
receiving notice that such motor vehicle is a stolen vehicle.
SECTION 9. PROCEDURE FOR DERELICT MOTOR VEHICLES - Derelict
Motor Vehicles shall be dealt accordingly. If a motor vehicle has been left unattended
on a private propefi for not less than two (2) days or on public property for not less
than three (3) days without the owner or driver making any attempt to recover such
vehicle or to leave a conspicuously placed note that such owner or driver intends to
return for such vehicle; or if a conspicuous note was left if the motor vehicle has been
left unattended for not less than five (5) days and if because of damage, vandalism,
theft or fire the vehicle is damaged to the extent that its restoration to an operable
condition would require the replacement of one or more major component pafts or
involves any structural damage that would affect the safety of the vehicle; or if here is
evidence that the vehicle was inoperable due to major mechanical breakdown at the
time it was left on the propefty; or if the vehicle is severed.

Ord. No. 0634-2t
DISPOSAL OF ABANDONED AND DERELICT MOTOR
SECTION 10.
VEHICLES
a) The City Transport and Traffic Manager:ent Office (CTTMO) in coordination with
the PNP-Highway Patrol Group, LTO, LTFRB, Barangay Council where the vehicle
is found shall recommend to the City Mayor the disposal of a vehicle that has
been taken into custody provided court approval is secured for vehicle involved
in litigation;
b) Such disposition shall be at public auction under such procedure, as the City
Mayor shall establish with the approval of the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod. A
written notice of such auction shall be sent to the last known address, at least
ten (10) days prior to the date of auction, and the said auction shall be held not
earlier than sixty (60) days after the date upon which such vehicle shall have
been taken into custody. Any transactions pertaining to such auction upon
payment at all costs and expenses relating to the towing and storage of such
vehicle shall be determined by the CCTMO through the Traffic Enforcement and
Street Management Offi ce;
c) The funds derived from any such auction shall be used to defray the expenses of
such auction and other expenses incurred in taking into custody, and the balance
if any, if there will be no claimant, shall form part of the General Fund of the
City;
d) In the event that no bid is received, the City Mayor shall offer such vehicle to any
interested perscn under such terms favorable to the City government with the
approval of the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod, and if no person is interested, the City
Mayor shall dispose of such vehicle at the City dump site;
SECTION 11. TECHNICAL WORKING GROUP (TWG) - The following
agencies shall form part of the Technicai Working Group who will work out the details
governing abandoned and derelict motor vehicle, to wit:
. City Transport and Trafflc Management Office (CTTMO);
. Land Transportation Office (LTO R-XI);
. Philippine National Police- HPG R-XI;
. Bureau of Fire Protection (BFP);
. Land Transpoftation Franchising Regulatory Board (LTFRB R-XI)
o Liga ng mga Barangay;
. Davao City Public Safety and Security Command Center;
. 911 Office;
The aforementioned offices shall form part in the crafting of the Implementing Rules
and Regulations (IRR).
SECTION 12. PROHIBITED ACTS AND PENALTIES
a) Any person who abandon a derelict motor vehicle on public or private property
shall be fined an amount of Five Thousand Pesos (P5,000) taking into
consideration all attending circumstances and shall pay all costs of having such
derelict motor vehicle removed and stored;

Ord. No. 0634-2t
b) Any person removing an abandoned and derelict motor vehicle who fails to
comply with the requirements of this Ordinance or who knowingly provide false
or misleading information when providing any notice or information required by
this Ordinance shall be penalized an amount of Five Thousand Pesos (P5,000)
taking into consideration all attending circumstances;
SECTION 12. SEPARABILITY CLAUSE - If any provision of this Ordinance
shall be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the
remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
SECTION 13.
- This Ordinance shall take effect fifteen (15)
- days after its publication in a newspaper of local circulation
ENACTED, on the 6th day of July 2021, by a unanimous vote of all the Members
of the Sanggunian, there being a quorum.
CERTIFIED CORRECT:
d)un; t , /'"rqHARrro N: gANTOS
Secretary to the Sangguhiang Panlungsod
ATTESTED:
ATTESTED:
EDGAR P. IB
President Pro Tempore
Temporary Presiding Officer
cns/bern
(City Government Depaftme nt Head lI\
APPROVED:
sEP 0 6 2ri2t
/
UTERTE
- City Mayor y
202L
. ZUL
. LOPEZ
City Administ
r'?
AN ORDINANCE GOVERNING ABANDONED AND DERELICT MOTOR VEHICLES WITHIN THE TERRITORIAL
JURISDICNON OF DAVAO CTTY AND PROVIDING PENALTIES THEREOF