19th City Council
40th Regular Session
SERIES of 202L
PRESENT:
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
ABSENT:
Vice Mayor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Sebastian Z. Dutefte
Nilo D. Abellera
Richlyn N. Justol-Baguilod
Antoinette G. Principe-Castrodes
,l
' Republic of the. PhiliPpines
Ralph O. Abella
Maria Belen S. Acosta
Bai Hundra Cassandra Dominique N. Advincula
Wilbefto E. Al-ag
Dante L. Apostol Sr.
Conrado C. Baluran
Jessica M. Bonguyan
Louie John J. Bonguyan
Pilar C. Braga
Augusto Javier G. Campos III
Danilo C. Dayanghirang
Jonard C. Dayap
Edgar P. Ibuyan Jr.
Edgar R. Ibuyan Sr.
Diosdado Angelo Junior R. Mahipus
Pamela A. Librado-Morata
Jaffar U. Marohomsalic
Bonifacio E. Militar
Myrna G. L'Dalodo-Ortiz
J. Melchor B. Quitain Jr.
Albefto T. Ungab
Mary Joselle D. Villafuefte
Jesus Joseph P.Zozobrado III
- Temporary Presiding Officer
- On Official Business
- On Sick Leave
- On Maternity Leave
- On Vacation Leave
ORDINANCE NO. O742.2I
SERIES of 2021
AN ORDINANCE CREATING THE PUBLIC SAFEW AND
sEcuRrw oFFrcE rN THE CITY OF DAVAO, DEFTNING
ITS DUTIES AND FUNCTIONS, AND APPROPRIATING
FUNDS FOR THE PURPOSE
*
I
,t

Page2 of 35
Ord. No. 0742-2L
SECTION 1. TITLE -This Ordinance shall be referred to as "AN ORDINANCE
CREATING THE PUBLIC SAFETY AND SECURTTY OFFICE IN THE CITY OF DAVAO,
DEFINING ITS DUTIES AND FUNCTIONS, AND APPROPRIATING FUNDS FOR THE
PURPOSE'"
SECTION 2. DECLARATION OF PRINCIPLES AND POLICIES .
A. Article 2, SECTION 5 of the L9B7 Philippine Constitution provides
that the maintenance of peace and order, the protection of life,
liberty and property and the promotion of the general welfare are
essential for the enjoyment by all the people of the blessings of
democracy;
B. SECTION 16 of Republic Act No. 7L60 or the Local Government
Code of 1991, mandates all loca! government units to ensure and
maintain peace and order within their respective areas of
jurisdictions, among other concerns;
C. SECTION 454 (c) (2) of Republic Act No. 7t60, otherwise known as
the Local Government Code of 1991, empowers the SANGGUNIANG
Panlungsod to create such other offices as may be necessary to carry
out the purposes of the City Government;
D. SECTION 77 of Republic Act No. 7L60 states "The chief executive
of every local government unit shall be responsible for human
resources and development in his unit and shall take all personne!
actions in accordance with the Constitutiona! provisions on civil
seruice, pertinent !aws, and rules and regulations thereon, including
such policies, guidelines and standards as the Civil Seruice
Commission may establish: Provided, That the local chief executive
may employ emergency or casua! employees or Iaborers paid on a
daily wage or piecework basis and hired through job orders for local
projects authorized by the Sanggunian concerned, without need of
approval or attestation by the Civil Seruice Commission: Provided,
further, That the period of employment of emergency or casual
laborers as provided in this SECTION shall not exceed six (6) months.";
E. SECTION 458 (a) (l) (vii) and (viii) of the Local Government Code of
1991 authorizes the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod to determine positions,
powers, duties and salaries of officials and employees of the City;
F. Executive Order No. 18, SERIES of 20L2, issued by the City Mayor
of Davao created the Public Safety and Security Command Center
(PSSC), defining its functions and appropriating funds for the purpose;
G. The City Government of Davao's innovative and coordinative
approach on providing protection, security, safety and risk
management to its stakeholders leads to the creation of the Public
Safety and Security Command Center (PSSCC) through Executive
Order No. 18, SERIES of 2012. With effectiveness and efficiency,
PSSCC monitors essential information and orchestrates effective
responses to situations and trends that affect public safety, order
and security of the people who live, work, study, visit, and invest in
Davao City through appropriate technological solutions and highly
proficient, capable and seruice-oriented people.

-
Ord. No. 0742-2L
SECTION 3. DEFINITION OF TERMS ANDACRONYMS -
Republic Act No.
7t60
Republic Act No. 7160, otherwise known as the "Local
Government Code of t99t", applies primarily to all local
governments - provinces, cities, municipalities and
barangays - in the Philippines. It also affects officials, offices,
and agencies of the national government as far as their
relationship to the local governments are concerned. The
Code does not apply to the Autonomous Region of Muslim
Mindanao (ARMM). Being an Autonomous Region, it has its
own Local Government Code. (Unpacking Local Government
Code of 1991, Republic Act No. 7L60, by the Local
Government Academy and the Depaftment of the Interior
and Local Government)
Plantilla
Regular employees holding permanent positions in the
government and enjoying a full employer-employee
relationship. They are entitled to full benefits under the law
including GSIS, PhilHealth and Pag-lbig fund membership;
paid vacation and sick leaves; and terminal leave
(Filipiknow.net)
Job Order
Refers to piece work ("pakyaw") or intermittent or
emergency jobs such as clearing of debris on the roads,
canals, watenruays, etc. after natural/ man-made
disasters/occurrences and other manuaftrades and crafts
seruices such as carpentry, plumbing, electrical, and the like.
These jobs are of short duration and for a specific
piece of work. (Civil Seruice Commission)
Contract of
Seruice
The engagement of the services of an individual, private
firm, other government agency, non-governmental agenry
or international organization as consultant, learning
service provider or technica! expert to undertake a special
project or job within a specific period. It also provides that
the term of contract between the agency and the
individual contractor shall be for a maximum period of one
year, renewable at the option of the Head of the procuring
entity, but in no case shall exceed the term of the latter.
(Civil Seruice Commission)
RA
Republic Act
EO
Executive Order
SG
Salary Grade, a number that defines the amount of
monthly payment/income that a government employee
receives; Salary Grade runs from 1 to 33
ICT
Information and Communications Technoloqy
I,

Ord. No. 0742-2L
PSSCC
Public Safety and Security Command Center, created under
Executive Order No. 18, SERIES of 20t2
PSSO
Public Safety and Security Office, proposed office in lieu of the
Ad Interim Office of the PSSCC
DBM
Depaftment of Budget and Management
UP
Abbreviation for Very Impoftant Person, a person of great
influence or prestige (Merriam-Webster dictionary)
CPU
Central Processing Unit
csc
Civil Seruice Commission
CCTV
Closed-ci rcuit Television
SECTION 4. EREATION OF PUBLIC SAFETY AND SECURITY OFFICE
IN THE CITY OF DAVAO - A Public Safety and Security Office (PSSO) in the City
of Davao shall be created.
A. The PSSO shall be headed by a City Government Depaftment
Head II (Public Safety and Security Officer) with Salary Grade26;
B. The City Government Assistant Depaftment Head II (Assistant
Public Safety and Security Officer) shall be the Assistant
Depaftment Head with Salary Grade24;
C. The organizational structure of the PSSO shall be composed of
the following divisions and sections:
1. Administrative Division;
2. Operations and Coordination Division;
a. Civil Security SECTION;
b. Public Safety and Security Operations SECTION;
c. Special Projects Operations SECTION;
3. Intelligence Coordination Division;
a. Intelligence Production SECTION;
b. Intelligence Dissemination SECTION;
4. Information System and Technology Management Division;
a. ICT Development SECTION;
b. ICT Management and Suppoft SECTION;
5. Development and Training Division;
a. Planningand Research SECTION;
b. Training and Development SECTION;
SECTION 5. DUTIES AND FUNCTIONS OF THE PUBLIC SAFETY AND
SECURITY OFFICE (PSSO) - The Public Safety and Security Office (PSSO) shall:
A. Serue as the command, control and coordinating area during day
to day activities, crisis and combined security operations;
B. Develop, create and operate an alternate command and control
center as the need arises;
C. Develop and support effective crime prevention and crime
reduction programs based on data gathered;
a
!

Ord. No. 0742-ZL
D. Design, coordinate, facilitate, oversee, analyze, and evaluate
the Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) and the training
of civilians, barangay functionaries, and LGU employees as
well as the conduct of loint Exercises between and among the
Security Units and Offices who will be part of the full
deployment of the Safe City Concept;
E. Formulation, implementation, and evaluation of long-range
and short-range development plans, programs, and projects
through comprehensive and systematic researches, studies,
and surueys on matters relating to Safety and Security;
F. Design and implement a system that allows for the information
to be collected, processed, and archived by technological
means for use of the office as well as to be distributed to
offices, agencies, and units relevant to security deployment;
G. Design and implement projects and systems pursuing
technological upgrades and the maintenance of said projects
and systems with the objective of making the City a Safe City
in terms of Security and Safety;
H. Analyze and evaluate the Proposed Security Plan for
government and private events for the approval and issuance
of a Security Clearance or Special Mayor's Permit;
I. Acquire and constantly maintain and upgrade digital systems
in order to prevent data loss or breach;
J. Provide necessary support as directed to Security Units, Offices,
and LocalGovernment Agencies in the field of Information and
Communication Technology relative to the implementation and
maintenance of the Security, Safety, and Public Order of the
CitY;
K. Provide a framework for collaboration, coordination and
inter-operability of all offices, agencies, and units involved in
the safety, security, and crime prevention network;
L. Oversee the City-wide Surveillance System through the Public
Safety and Security Operations SECTION;
M. Monitor events, situations, issues and developments in the
country and overseas that may affect the !oca! safety and
security situation of the City and subsequently interpreting,
analyzing, and providing constant updates and exchanges of
information regarding said matters to the Security Cluster in
order to maximize all resources needed to address said
matters;
N. Identify potential criminal, terrorism, and insurgency targets
in the City in order to determine and implement the
appropriate security measures to ensure the safety of lives
and property;
0. Adopt and facilitate PSSO clusters comprising of law
enforcement agencies, military units, public safety agencies
and intelligence agencies that shall adhere to a city-wide
strategy to examine information exchange including its
dissemination;

Ord. No. 0742-2L
P. Manage the operations of Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (AUVs)/
Remotely Piloted Aircrafts (RPAs) during emergency and
disaster situations and for security surueillance purposes;
a. Manage the periodic registration of all drones and RPAs under
seven (7) kilograms that are operated by private persons and
establishments which are used for professional, noncommercial, hobbyists, recreational, and/or sports purposes,
within the City, with the assistance and coordination of the Civil
Aviation Authority of the Philippines (CAAP)- Davao City Office;
R. Plan, direct, and coordinate all administrative functions as well
as the formulation of administrative policies and the
enforcement of appropriate sanctions;
S. Protect City Government Properties, Natural Resources, and
Infrastructure incorporating sustainable development goals;
T. Perform other functions as the City Mayor may direcU
SECTION 6. DUTIES AND FUNCTIONS OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE
DMSION - The Administrative Division shall:
A. Plan, direct and coordinate Personnel Administration
Function, Record Management Function and other related
ad ministrative function;
B. Formulate administrative policies to improve existing systems
and procedures for effective and efficient delivery of seruices;
C. Oversee implementation of office policies and enforcement of
appropriate sanctions;
D. Prepare and submit documents required by the City
Government.
E. Perform other tasks as may be required pursuant to this
Ordinance.
SECTION 7. DUTIES AND FUNCTIONS OF THE OPERATTONS AND
COORDINATION DMSION - The Operations and Coordination Division shall:
A. Prepare, propose plans and execute approved programs,
projects and other initiatives to enhance coordination,
collaboration and improved inter-operability capacities of
various responders in the government and private sectors
for planned events, emergency situations and disaster
operations;
B. Assist in promoting and propagating the widespread use of
the Incident Command System among government agencies/
offices and private establishments/ institutions/ organizations
in the safety and security clusters;
C. Analyze and evaluate, together with the members of the
Security and Safety Clusters, the proposed Security Plan for
the approval and issuance of a Special Mayor's Permit;
D. Establish crisis management and contingency planning;
I

Ord. No. 0742-2L
E. Develop emergency procedures and incident responses;
F. Manage and superuise the operations of the City-wide
Surveillance System;
G. Maintain inter-agency coordination with the different
members of the Safety and Security clusters regarding
matters;
H. Coordinate with the Bantay Bukid Volunteers in monitoring
the watersheds, natural resources, and rainforests of the City;
I. Provide security assistance in the monitoring of government
properties, and the tribal areas in the City against
encroachers and illegal settlers;
J. Monitor the structural integrity of the dikes and the coastal
road and report any damages that may be caused by
human or natural intervention;
K. Operate Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (AUVs)/ Remotely Piloted
Aircrafts (RPAs) during emergency and disaster situations and
for security surveillance purposes;
L. Manage the registration, evaluation, and release of permits
for Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (AUVs)/ Remotely Piloted
Aircrafts (RPAs) below seven (7) kilograms;
M. Conduct demolition operations against illegal/informal settlers
who may be damaging and/or compromising the intended
purpose of the dike, coastal road, the waters enclosed by the
coastal road and all other similar areas;
N. Perform other tasks that may be required pursuant to this
Ordinance.
SECTION 8. DUTIES AND FUNCTIONS OF THE INTELLIGENCE
COORDINATION DMSION - The Intelligence Coordination Division shall:
A. Monitor events, situations, issues and developments in the
country and overseas that may affect the local safety and
security situation of Davao City;
B. Maintain a constant and up to date City risk assessment on
criminality, terrorism and emergencies;
C, Prepare the mapping of barangays, roads, vital installations and
other areas that are targeted by criminal and terrorist activities:
government infrastructure, religious places of worship,
multinational corporations, commercial establishments, vital
installations, venues that host large crowds and allother likely
targets;
D. Facilitate the exchange of information and intelligence,
maximizing resources towards priorities and streamlining law
enforcement and martial operations in coordination with other
line agencies;
E. Analyze data to identify crime trends and emerging threats and
evaluate the effectiveness of crime prevention and crime
reduction strategies and programs in coordination with other line
agencies;

Ord. No. 0742-21
F. Facilitate a PSSO Conference Group that shall adhere to the Citywide strategy to examine information exchange including its
dissemination;
G. Facilitate the formulation and implementation of intelligence
sharing system between offices, agencies, and units to the
Davao City Local Government Unit;
H. Perform other tasks as may be required pursuant to this
Ordinance.
SECTION 9. DUTIES AND FUNCTIONS OF THE INFORMATION SYSTEM
AND TECHNOLOGY MANAGEMENT DMSION -The Information System and
Technology Management Division shall:
A. Manage all information communication technology resources in
accordance to its needs and priorities which will include
planning, developing, testing, implementing, monitoring,
maintaining and integrating appropriate technologies and
systems into identified areas that will improve the overall
efficiency and effectiveness of the Center;
B. Set direction and plans for the Information and Communications
Technology infrastructure which includes establishment and
enforcement of necessary frameworks, standards and
procedures peftaining to the administration, management and
uses of the information system;
C. Implement proper archiving procedures or database
administration, necessary back up policies and redundancy
mechanisms to prevent loss of computer data and information;
D. Implement the necessary electronic security measures to
safeguard sensitive and critical PSSO infrastructures;
E. Implement necessary preventive maintenance and support to
both hardware and software infrastructure systems for optimum
performance;
F. Provide related support to all users of the infrastructure
systems which will include end- user training of the
implemented solutions at all levels;
G, Provide necessary consultancy services and assistance to
agencies pertaining to the provision of different infrastructure
systems to be implemented;
H. Develop and maintain technological linkages to other
cooperating safety and security agencies.
I. Undertake forward planning and feasibility studies pertaining
to the development and implementation of software solutions
and other infrastructures and other line agencies that maybe
linked to the command center;
J. Develop, implement and maintain software applications that
respond to common needs within the command center;
K, Continuously conduct research, testing and evaluation of new
related technology that may assist in the overall function of the
command center;

Ord. N,o. 0742-21
L. Perform other tasks as may be required pursuant to this
Ordinance.
SECTION 10. DUTIES AND FUNCTIONS OF THE DEVELOPMENT AND
TRAINING DMSION - The Development and Training Division shall:
A. Plan, develop and manage all researches and training programs to ensure
adequate knowledge and skills whenever safety and security mechanisms
are implemented;
B. Orchestrate training of CSU personnel and Barangay Tanods in Security
and Safety Operations, Emergency Preparedness and Disaster Response;
C. Design and facilitate the implementation of inter-agency training
programs, joint capability exercises and rehearsals;
D. Formulate, implement, and evaluate long-range and short-range
development plans, programs and projects;
E. Analyze and evaluate the effectiveness and efficiency of Security and
Safety Operations, Emergency Preparedness and Disaster Response;
F. Conduct review, assessment and evaluation of PSSO policies, plans and
programs as they relate to the efficient and effective administration and
operation of the organization;
c Undertake researches, studies and surueys on matters relating to Safety and
Security;
H. Perform other tasks as may be required pursuant to this Ordinance.
SECTION 11. CREATION OF PSSO PLANTILLA POSITIONS - Pursuant to
SECTION 13 of Civil Service Memorandum Circular No. 13, SERIES of t992 entitled,
"Guidelines and Standards in the Establishment of Organizational Structure and Staffing
Pattern in the Local Government Units, and the DBM's Index of Occupational Seruices,
Occupational Groups, Classes and Salary Grades, the PSSO shall have the minimum
regular positions to be created.
A. Regular positions of Depaftment Head and Assistant Depaftment Head shall be
created in the PSSO.
Class/Position
Title
SG
Number of
Positions
City Government Department Head ll (Public Safety and
Security Officer)
City Government Assistant Department Head ll (Assistant
Public Safety and Security Officer)
I
B. The following regular positions shall be created under the Administrative
Division:
Class/Position
Title
SG
Number of
Positions
Supervising Administrative Officer (Administrative Officer IV)
Administrative Officer Ill (AdministrativeOfficer V)
Administrative Officer I (Supply Officer I)
Administrative Aide VI (Storekeeper II)
Administrative Aide Ill (Driver II)
Administrative Aide IV (Clerk II)
r. I

Ord. No. 0742-2L
C. The following regular positions shall be created under the Operations and
Coordination Division :
1. One(l) regular position of Special Operations Officer IV with Salary Grade22;
2. The following regular positions shall be created under the Civil Security
SECTION:
Class/Position
Title
SG
Number
of
Positions
Special Operations Officer Ill
Special Operations Officer II
L4
Special Operations Officer I
3, The following regular positions shall be created under the Public Safety
and Security Operations SECTION:
Class/Position
Title
SG
Number
of
Positions
Special Operations Officer II
L4
Special Operations Officer I
Administrative Assistant Ill (Computer Operator II)
B
Administrative Aide VI (Communications Equipment
Operator II)
4. The following regular positions shall be created under the Special
Projects Operations SECTION :
CIass/Position
Title
SG
Number
of
Positions
Special Operations Officer II
Special Operations Officer I
D, The following regular positions shall be created under the Intelligence
Coordination Division :
1. One(l) regular position of Special Operations Officer IV with Salary Grade
22;
2. One(l) regular position of Special Operations Officer Ill with Salary Grade
1B;
3. The following regular positions shall be created under the Intelligence
Production SECTION:
CIass/Position Title
SG
Number
of
Positions
Special Operations Officer II
t4
Special operations otticer I

Class/Position Title
SG
Number
of
Positions
Special Operations Officer II
L4
Special Operations Officer I
Ord. No. 0742-21
4. The following regular positions shall be created under the Intelligence
Dissemination SECTION :
E. The following regular positions shall be created under the Information
System and Technology Management Division:
1. One(l) regular position of Information Technology Officer II with Salary
Grade 22;
2. One(l) regular position of Information Technology Officer I with Salary
Grade 19;
3. The following regular Positions shall be created under the ICT
Development SECTION:
Class/Position
Title
SG
Number
of
Positions
Information Systems Analyst II
Information Systems Researcher I
t2
4. The following regular positions shall be created under the ICT Management
and Support SECTION
Class/Position
Title
SG
Number
of
Positions
Information Systems Analyst II
Information Systems Analyst I
L2
Computer Maintenance Technologist I
Administrative Assistant II (Electronics and
Communications Equipment Technician II)
B
F. The following regular positions shall be created under the Development and
Training Division:
1. One(l) regular position of Development Management Officer IV with Salary
Grade 22;
2. The following regular positions shall be created under the Planning and
Research SECTION:
Class/Position
Title
SG
Number
of
Positions
Planning Officer II
Planning Officer I

Ord. No. 0742-21
3. The following regular positions shall be created under the Training and
Development SECTION
Class/Position
Title
SG
Number
of
Positions
Development Management Officer II
Development Management Officer I
SECTION L2. DUTIES AND RESPONSTBILITIES OF PLANTILLA
POSITIONS - Duties and responsibilities of the different positions in the PSSO shall
be as follows:
A. The duties and responsibilities of the City Government Department Head II
(Public Safety and Security Officer) are the following:
1. Acts as the responsible officer to the City Mayor on all
matters concerning inter-agency coordination,
collaboration and inter-operability on safety and security
concerns in the City;
2. Assists in ensuring the safety and protection of the public
against crime through the maintenance of peace and order;
3. Designs an appropriate security system and formulate security
policy for approval of the City Mayor;
4. Conducts regular review of office policies and procedure involving
security to make sure that measures are responsive to the
changing conditions by way of gathering information and data
which are confidential;
5. Advises the City Mayor on security matters including the peace
and order condition of the City and to develop possible
intervention through effective coordination with intelligence
force;
6. Creates and maintains good channels of communication and
support across various depaftments and agencies to strengthen
security initiatives;
7. Does other work as may be directed by the City Mayor.
B. The duties and responsibilities of the Assistant City Government Department
Head II (Assistant Public Safety and Security Officer) are the following:
1. Assists the Public Safety and Security Officer in the peformance of
his/her duties and responsibilities and in running the operations of
the office;
2. Assists the Public Safety and Security Officer in the management
and giving direction on the planning, implementation and
evaluation of programs and projects of the office;
3. Supervises various operational activities in the office and assumes
the duties and functions of the Public Safety and Security Officer in
case of absence and/or incapacity;

Ord. No. 0742-ZL
4. Performs such other duties and functions as may be prescribed by
law, ordinance, or as may be directed by the Public Safety and
Security Officer and/or any superior officers.
C. The duties and responsibilities of the regular positions in the
Administrative Division are as follows:
REGULAR POSITION
DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES
Supervising
Administrative Officer
(Ad mi nistrative Officer
N)
a. Plans, directs and superuises all administrative
activities and performs diversified and complex
admi nistrative seruice functions;
b. Plans, directs and coordinates personnel
administration, records management,
budgeting and resource management, and
other related administrative functions;
c. Plans and superuises in the budget preparation
process and controlling of budget expenditures
to oversee the flow of the flnancial operations
of the office;
d. Formulates administrative policies to improve
existing systems and procedures for effective
delivery of services;
e. Provides direct superuision that includes
conducting performance evaluation in order to
identify problem areas and determine solutions
and implement changes;
f. Oversees implementation of office policies and
enforcement of appropriate sanctions;
g. Superuises and coordinates general seruices
functions;
h. Does other functions as may be directed by the
Department Head.
Administrative Officer
III (Administrative
Officer V)
a. Shall direct and superuise the issuance of
supplies and keeps inventory thereof;
b. Assists the Superuising Administrative Officer in
the budget preparation process and in
controlling budget expenditures of the office;
c, Shall supervise the preparation of all
documents relative to the procurement
process of supplies, equipment, and
materials of the Department;
d, Shall supervise storage and distribution of
supplies and materials, tools and equipment
for the use of the Department;
e. Does other functions as may be directed by
the Department Head.

Ord. No. 0742-21
Administrative Officer I
(Supply Officer I)
a. Inspects supplies and materials delivered and
maintains a record of its delivery;
b. Prepares Purchase Requests and Purchase
Orders;
c. Prepares the Project Procurement
Management Plan of the office showing the
itemized list as to kind, estimated cost,
estimated quantity, description of the
property;
d. Prepares and submits inventory report of all
office equipment and supplies;
e. Encodes all detailed information of each
Acknowledged Receipt of Equipment (ARE) for
every accountable officers and employees;
f . Performs other duties as directed.
Administrative Aide VI
(Storekeeper II)
a. Shall conduct the inventory of supplies and
fills out forms and prepares requisition in
relation to procurement and see to it that
delivery is in accordance with specifications;
b. Ensures that items received are properly stored
in assigned places and in accordance with
established techniques and procedures;
c. Maintains storage areas and ensure the safety
of the equipment and supplies;
d Conduct periodic inventory of all office
equipment;
e Receives, records and controls office supplies
and equipment issued;
f Organize and label all equipment and supplies
in the storage;
g Performs other duties as directed.
Administrative Aide Ill
(Driver II)
a, Drives service vehicles of the office in
transporting officials and/or personnel assigned
to conduct field inspections;
b, Transport maintenance crew to different
disaster area;
c, Maintains proper handling of service vehicles,
spare parts, and gasoline;
d, Performs other duties as directed.

Ord. No. 0742-2L
Administrative Aide
IV (Clerk II)
a. Types and disseminates information to the
general public;
b. Transcribes notes regarding information
dissemination;
c, Checks/ evaluates documents for correctness;
d, Keeps record of attendance and other
personnel records including the updating of
records of vacation and sick leave of
employees of the office;
e. Performs general office duties such as doing
frontline services to clients, sorting of official
documents, mails, etc,
and
answering/making official phonecalls;
I
f, Types, encodes, prepares office payrotts,
I
disbursement vouchers, office
I
correspondence, memoranda, reports and do
]
other typing works;
g, Receives, sorts, records, copies and stamp
incoming and outgoing office
correspondence, bills and other documents;
h, Takes charge of the records keeping of valuable
records for file;
i. Shall file and label documents for permanent
storage;
j, Receives, releases, records incoming and
outgoing communications;
k, Prepare and submit required reports.
l, Performs other duties as directed.
D. The duties and responsibilities of the regular positions of the different sections
in the Operations and Coordination Division are as follows:
1. Special Operations Officer IV
a. Assists the Public Safety and Security Officer in supervising the
over-all operational activities related to the safety and security
of the City;
b. Repofts all security plans, activities, incidents, countermeasures, and other operational concerns to the Public Safety
and Security Officer;
c, Develops emergency procedures and incident responses;
d. Plans and coordinates security operations for specific events;
e. Implements action plans to monitor and controlrisk;
f. Establishes crisis management and contingency planning;
g. Reviews, analyzes, and evaluates security operations to
identify risks or opportunities to ensure efficiency and quality
for improvement of security operations and recommends
actions to Public Safety and Security Officer;

'
Ord. trlo. 0742-2L
h. Superuises the operation of Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (AUVs)/
Remotely Piloted Aircrafts (RPAs) during emergency and disaster
situations and for security surveillance purposes;
i. Supervises the registration, evaluation, and release of permits
for Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (AUVs)/ Remotely Piloted Aircrafts
(RPAs);
j. Supervises the operations of theCity-wide Surveillance System;
k. Conducts demolition operations against illegal/informal settlers
who may be damaging and/or compromising the intended
purpose of the dike and coastal road.
l. Performs other duties as directed.
2. Civil Security SECTION
REGULAR POSITION
DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES
Special Operations
Officer III
a. Superuises day to day operations of physical
security system to include conduct of periodic
physical security inspection, superuision of
the implementation of rules and regulations
affecting building management such as
perimeter, fire/crime prevention, vehicle
security, visitor control, VIP security, etc. and
direct superuision over security guards and
watchmen to ensure safety;
b. Superuises the maintenance of government
premises covered by his area of responsibility
to ensure safety of employees and walk-in
clients;
c. Superuises subordinates in the performance
of their respective assigned tasks, training,
and other related performance including
conduct of discipline to its subordinate;
d, Plans, directs, or coordinate security activities
to safeguard office assets, employees, guests,
or others on company propefi;
e. Coordinates security operations or activities
with public law enforcement, fire, and other
agencies;
f. Superuises the monitoring of the
implementation of security policies, programs
or procedures to ensure compliance with
internal security policies, licensing
requirements, or applicable government
security requirements, policies, and
directives;
g. Superuises the implementation of security
standards, policies, and procedures of the
office;
h. Attends meetings, professional seminars, or
conferences to keep abreast of changes in
executive legislative directives or new
technologies impacting security operations;
i. Performs other duties as directed.

Ord. No. A742-?.L
Special Operations
Officer II
a. Monitors security policies, programs or
procedures to ensure compliance with
internal security policies, licensing
requirements, or applicable government
security requirements, policies, and
directives;
b. Plans and coordinates security operations for
specific events;
c. Conducts, supports, or assists in evaluations,
orassessments of the overall effectiveness of
the City security processes;
d. Identifies, investigates, or resolves security
breaches;
e. Prepares repofts or make present
conferences actions on
internal
investigations, losses, or violations of
regulations, policies, and procedures;
f. Assists in the conduct of physical
examinations of properlry to ensure
compliance with security policies and
regulations;
g, Analyzes security data to determine security
needs, security program goals, or program
accomplishments;
h. Attends meetings, professional seminars, or
conferences to keep abreast of changes in
executive legislative directives or new
technologies impacting security operations;
i. Performs other duties as directed.
Special Operations
Officer I
a, Conducts monitoring/supervision of the
security guards on their area of assignments
to ensure implementation of security
measures adopted by the office and keep
records of the incidents submitted;
b. Deploys civil security forces during City events
in order to monitor or ensure the safety and
security of the public and to eliminate
possible threats that may occur in such
events;
c. Direct superuision over security guards and
watchmen to ensure safety;
d. Collects data and other incidental reports
submitted and recommends proper action to
his i m mediate supervisor;
e. Communicates/reports security status,
updates, and actual or potential problems,
usi ng esta blished protocols;
t. Performs other duties as directed.

Ord. No. 0742-2L
3. Public Safety and Security Operations SECTION
REGULAR POSITION
DUTIES AN D RESPONSIBILITIES
Special Operations
Officer II
a. Assists the Special Operations Officer IV on
all matters concerning the Public Safety and
Security Operations SECTION;
b. Directly supervises the daily operations of
the City-wide surveillance system;
c. Exercises direct supervision over the
personnel under the Public Safety and
Security Operations Center SECTION;
d. Coordinates planning of activities, programs
and projects by the officers in the Public
Safety and Security Operations Center
SECTION;
e. Submits Monthly Performance Reports and
Incident Repofts;
f. Peforms other duties as directed.
Special Operations
Officer I
a. Supervises over the work activities,
personnel and other resources assigned to
the Public Safety and Security Operations
SECTION;
b. Monitors, corrects and disciplines violators in
full-duty observance, punctuality and civil
behavior of employees directly under him;
c. Submits Weekly Performance Report and
consolidates the daily Incident Reports;
c. Performs other duties as directed.
Admi nistrative Assistant
III (Computer Operator
r)
a. Operates the Public Safety and Security
Operations SECTION's (PSSO's) computer
applications and systems;
b. Controls and guides the work performance
of the radio and CCTV Operators to ensure
that they are diligently and competently
monitoring occurrences of unusual or
significant events, incidents, suspicious
persons and/or objects and threatening
situations and correctly implementing
protocols for such situations;
c. Informs direct supervisor and Department
Head whenever unusual or significant
occurrences/incidents are observed on the
monitors;
d. Relays all relevant information on
monitored unusual or significant events,
suspicious persons and/or objects and
threatening situations to pre-identified
appropriate responders;
e. Maintains file security to ensure
confidentiality and integrity of records;

f. Immediately reports any technical
problems encountered that require
corrective action;
g. Submits Summary of Monitored Incidents
after every shift period;
h. Undeftakes the Video Request Procedures;
i. Performs other duties as directed.
Administrative Aide VI
(Communications
Equipment Operator II)
a. Receives, relays and transmits messages
I
to all authorized receivers of
I
communication;
I
b. 't'rtonitors and tests assigned integrated
I
frequencies in the Public Safety and Security
Operations SECTION (PSSOS) and provide
situational updates of significant situations to
linked agencies;
c. Monitors the functionality of all frequencies
integrated to the Public Safety and Security
Operations SECTION (PSSOS);
d. Reports all relevant information monitored.
e. Reports any technical problems noted/
experienced.
f. Maintains a record book of transactions
and log all important messages of all
authorized receivers of communication;
g. Performs other duties as directed.
4. Special Projects Operations SECTION
REGULAR POSITION
DUTIES AN D RESPONSIBILITIES
Special Operations
Officer II
a. Assists the Special Operations Officer IV on
all matters concerning the management of
protected areas, water resources, river
dikes, and coastal roads;
b. Exercises direct superuision over the
personnel under the Special Operations
SECTION;
c. Facilitates the coordination between Bantay
Bukid Volunteers in monitoring the
watersheds, natural resources, and
rainforests of the City;
d. Submits a Monthly Performance;
e. Performs other duties as directed.
Ord. No. 0742-21

, Page,20 of 35
Ord. No. 0V42-2L
Special Operations
Officer I
a. Monitors the Davao City protected a
water resources, river dikes, and coasta
roads;
b. Conducts regular inspection in the
protected areas in order to prevent illegal
settlers and encroachers;
c. Maintains regular coordination with other
line agencies on matters related to the
security of Davao City's protected areas,
water resources, river dikes, and
coastal roads;
d. Submits a weekly monitoring repoft;
e. Performs other duties as directed.
E. The duties and responsibilities of the regular positions of the different
sections in the Intelligence Coordination Division are as follows:
1. Special Operations Officer IV
a. Acts as primary staff on all matters concerning intelligence;
b. Superuises the exchange of information and intelligence,
maximizing resources towards priorities and streamlining
law enforcement and martial operations in coordination
with other line agencies;
c. Supervises the collection, production and dissemination of
domestic intelligence for the use of the Public Safety and
Security Officer;
d. Reviews, analyzes, and evaluates security operations to
identify risks or opportunities to ensure efficiency and
quality for improvement of security operations and
recommends actions to Public Safety and Security
Officer;
e. Performs other duties as directed.
2.Special Operations Officer III
a. Responsible for the performance of the functions of the
intelligence Coordination SECTION;
b, Superuises subordinates in the pertormance of their respective
assigned tasks and other related performance including conduct of
discipline to its subordinates;
c. Develops emergency procedures and incident responses;
d. Implements action plans to monitor and controlrisk;
e. Establishes crisis management and contingenry planning;
f . Performs other duties as directed.

,Page 21 of 35
Ord. No. 0742-2L
3. Intelligence Production SECTION
4. Intelligence Dissemination SECTION
REGUI.AR POSITION
DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES
Special Operations
Officer II
a. Assists the Special Operations Officer IV on
all matters concerning intelligence and
responsible for the peformance of the
functions of the Intelligence Coordination
SECTION;
b. Facilitates in the process of interpretation,
evaluation, and analysis of the collected raw
data in transforming into finished intelligence
information;
c. Acts as Liaison Officer with other military and
civilian intelligence agencies, units and
offices;
d. Submits a Monthly Intelligence Repoft;
e. Performs other duties as directed.
Special Operations
Officer I
a. Assists in the coordination and facilitation of
i ntelligence production;
b. Assists in the coordination of intelligence and
counterintelligence requirements of
agencies, units and offices;
c. Performs the collection, collation, evaluation,
analysis, integration, and interpretation of
vital and confidential information related to
safety and security;
d. Performs other duties as directed.
REGULAR POSITION
DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES
Special Operations
Officer II
a. Assists the Special Operations Officer IV on
all matters concerning intelligence and
responsible for the performance of the
functions of the Intelligence Coordination
SECTION;
b. Acts as Liaison Officer with other military
and civilian intelligence agencies, units and
offices;
c. Analyzes feedbacks acquired from end users
pertaining to the disseminated intelligence
information for fufther re-evaluation;
d. Submits a Monthly Performance Repoft;
e. Peforms other duties asdirected.
Special Operations
Officer I
a. Assists in the coordination and facilitation of
i ntel ligence dissemination;
b, Facilitates in the distribution of finished
intelligence information to military and
civilian intelligence agencies, units, and
offices;

' Page 22 of 35
Ord. No. 0742-ZL
c. Gathers and monitors feedbacks of the
disseminated finished intelligence
information from end users related to safety
and security;
d. Performs other duties as directed.
F. The duties and responsibilities of the regular positions of the different sections
in the Intelligence Coordination Division are as follows:
1. Information Technology Officer II
a. Acts as primary staff on all matters concerning information
systems, communications and technology;
b. Sets the direction and oversees the management of all
information system and technology resources of the office in
accordance to its needs and priorities overseeing the stages of
planning, developing, testing, implementing, monitoring,
maintaining and integrating appropriate technologies and
systems;
c. Establishes and enforces necessary frameworks, standards and
procedures pertaining to the administration, management and uses
of the systems all throughout the PSSO;
d. Develops strategies to be used in the implementation of software and
hardware systems in the PSSO;
e. Directs the conduct of technological research necessary for the
improvement of the systems used by the office;
f. Provides training and necessary assistance for the employees
involved in the implementation and maintenance of the software
systems;
g. Collects necessary information technology specifications for each
division and ensure that all requirements are met;
h. Ensures constant capacity and proficiency building for the technology
management personnel;
i. Performs other duties as directed.
2. Information Technology Officer I
a. Assists the Information Technology Officer II in the performance
of his/her duties and responsibilities concerning information
systems, communications and technology;
b. Recommends information technology strategies, policies, and
procedures by evaluating organization outcomes, identifying
problems, evaluating trends, anticipating requirements;
c. Performs other duties as directed.
REGULAR POSITION
DUTIES AN D RESPONSIBILITIES
Information Systems
Analyst II
a. Executes fonruard planning and feasibility
studies peftaining to the development,
integration and implementation of software
solutions and other infrastructures;
3. ICT Development SECTION

Ord. No. 0742-21
b. Leads in the execution of research, new
development, prototyping, modification,
reuse, re-engineering, maintenance, or any
other activities that results in software
products or other system infrastructure;
c. Leads and monitors all PSSO ICT-related
projects;
d. Superuises the Information Researcher I in the
conduct of research, testing, and handling of
PSSO ICT-related projects;
e. Conducts training for all ICT personnel in the
usage and configuration of the information;
t. Perform other duties as directed by the
superuisor
4. ICT Management and Support SECTION
Information Systems
Researcher I
a. Assists in the overall operation of all servers,
networks, database, storage, applications and
linkages to other agencies including the
implementation of necessary system security;
b. Verifies application result by conducting
system audits of technologies implemented;
c. Coordinates with the ICT Management and
Suppoft SECTION in the facilitation and
preseruation of technological assets by
implementing disaster recovery and backup
procedures, information security and control
structures and necessary preventive
maintenance;
d. Aids in the overall development and
implementation of software solutions and
other system infrastructure;
e. Conducts research, testing and evaluation
of new related technology that may improve
the overall function of the Office.
f . Assists the Systems Analyst II in implementing
and monitoring of PSSO Information
Com mu nication Tech nology projects.
g. Performs other duties as directed.
Information Systems
Analyst II
a. Manages the overall operation of all
servers, networks, database, storage,
applications and linkages to other agencies
including the implantation of necessary
system security;
b. Administers the implementation of
necessary corrective and preventive
maintenance and support to both hardware
and software infrastructure system for
optimum performance;

Ord. No. 0742-2L
c. Facilitates the preseruation of
technological assets by implementing
disaster recovery and backup procedures,
information security and control structures
and necessary preventive maintenance;
d. Oversees the maintenance of the
computer system and ensures that all
other implemented infrastructure in the
PSSO are functioning properly;
e. Executes forward planning peftaining to the
external PSSO network connection (wired &
wireless);
t. Designs, Plans and Supervises the
installation of CCWs during special events
in the City;
g. Superuises subordinates in managing
servers, database, storage, and application;
h. Ensures that the technological linkages to
other safety and security agencies are wellmaintained;
i. Ensures the maintenance of softulare
applications being used within the Office;
j. Performs other duties as directed.
Information Systems
Analyst I
a. Ensures that the uptime, performance,
resources, and security of the servers meet
the needs ofthe users;
b. Shall be responsible for the upkeep,
configuration, and reliable operation of all
SCTVCTS;
c. Performs proper archiving procedures or
database administration, necessary back
up policies and redundancy mechanism to
prevent loss of computer data and
information;
d. Checks regularly the overall internal
network infrastructure which includes
implementation of corrective measures
and preventive maintenance to ensure
seamless connectivity;
e. Shall be responsible for designing,
organizing, modifying, installing, and
suppofting computer systems such as l-ANs,
WANs, Internet and intranet systems, and
network segments;
f . Executes daily system monitoring,
verifying the integrity and availability of all
hardware, server resources, systems and
key processes, reviewing system and
application logs, and verifying completion
of scheduled jobs such as backups;

Ord. No. 0742-2L
g. Monitors designated applications and
takes corrective action to prevent or
minimize system downtime;
h. Assists in developing policies, procedures,
programs, scripts, or web pages as required;
i. Develops and maintains a database
system, and is responsible for the integrity
of the data and the efficiency and
performance of the system;
j. Controls data security and setting data
privacy;
k. Troubleshoots system related problems;
coordinates with relevant System
Administrators and/or third-party vendors
regarding user support and problem
resolution;
l. Monitors and manages storage resources,
configuration, migration, provisioning,
archiving
and
storage
mon itori n g/ reporti n g ;
m, Provides upper-level support to users
having difficulties with applications;
n. Maintains data center environmentat and
monitoring equipment;
o. Performs other duties as directed.
Computer Maintenance
Technologist I
a. Provides technical assistance and support
for queries and issues related to computer
systems, software, and hardware;
b. Assists in the overall implementation of
corrective measure and maintenance;
c. Performs basic computer software and
hardware trou bleshooti ng ;
d. Performs CCTV and other peripherals
troubleshooting;
e. Oversees the overall implementation of
corrective measure and maintenance of the
CCTV.
f. Maintains seamless connection of City-wide
surueillance cameras;
g. Equipment monitoring which includes
generator set, air - conditioning units (ACU)
and Uninterruptable Power Supply (UPS);
h. Supervises Electronics and Communication
Equipment Technician in the implementation
of corrective measures and maintenance of
the CCTV's;
Provide related support to all users of
infrastructure systems which will include
end - user training;
i.
,i

Pa$e 26 of 35
Ord. No. 0742-2L
j. Performs ongoing performance tuning,
hardware upgrades, and resource
optimization as required;
Configure CPU, memory, and disk paftitions
as required;
k. Coordinates with the supply division
regarding spare parts and other
requirements;
l. Performs other duties as directed;
Administrative
Assistant II
(Electronics and
Communications
Equipment Technician
u)
a. Executes maintenance, repair and
preventive checks on all communication
equipment and base transceivers including
all antenna accessories, systems, and
other communication equipment;
b. Checks the functionality of the
communication servers;
c. Performs corrective measures and
maintenance and basic electronics and
communications
equipment
troubleshooting;
d. Repairs and recovers from hardware
and/or software failures;
e. Installs all communication equipment,
mobile and portable antennas, and
transceivers;
f . Performs other duties as directed.
G. The duties and responsibilities of the regular positions in the Development and
Training Division
1. Development Management Officer IV
a. Superuises the operations of the Development and Training
Division and evaluates the detailed program of activities of the
PSSO;
b. Plans, organizes, directs and controls the implementation
of approved research and training programs, projects and
other initiatives;
c. Keeps abreast of the latest training and research concepts and
methodologies on public safety, order, and security in other
key cities and countries;
d, Monitors, evaluates, and provides guidance for the
enhancement of job performances of employees;
e. Keeps the PSSO Head well-informed of the official activities
and current status of ongoing programs related to training
and research;
f . Performs such other functions as directed.

Ord. No. 0742-2t
2. Ptanning and Research SECTION
REGUTAR POSITION
DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES
Planning Offcer II
a. Formulates and evaluates long-range and
shoft-range development plans, programs,
and projects;
b. Analyzes and evaluates the effectiveness
and efficiency of Security and Safety
Operations, Emergenry Preparedness, and
Disaster Response;
c. Conducts review, assessment and
evaluation of PSSO policies, plans and
programs as they relate to the efficient and
effective administration and operation of
the organization;
d. Plans, proposes and supervises the
implementation of approved researches,
studies or surveys;
e. Profiles all threats which affect or may
affect the safety, order and security of the
city;
f. Evaluates the capabilities, strengths and
weaknesses of the city's core safety,
security and emergency responderc.
g. Develops linkages with external sources of
information and research seruice providers
for their possible future utilization and
engagement.
h. Peforms such other functions asdirected.
Planning Officer I
a. Assists in the actual gathering,
documentation, recording, filing of planning
documents, policy papers, implementing
guidelines and procedures;
b. Assists in the conduct of actual field visits
and gathering of data in the preparation of
the feasibility studies;
c. Assists in the evaluation of projects and
activities;
d. Creates a detailed annual program of
actjvities for the PSSO;
e. Undeftakes researches, studies, and surveys
on matters relating to Safety and Security;
f. Performs such other functions asdirected.

Ord. No. 0742-Zl
3. Training and Development SECTION
REGULAR POSITION
DUTIES AN D RESPONSIBILITIES
Development
Management Officer II
a. Plans, proposes and superuises the
implementation and facilitation of approved
training and development programs to
establish, develop and improve:
. the individual commitment, group
cohesion and job competencies of
organic PSSO employees and work
groups;
. the collaborative efficiency and multiagency inter-operability effectiveness
among all the safety, security and
emergency responders of the city;
. the organization and preparedness of
emergency management teams in the
city.
b. Plans, develops and manages all training
programs to ensure adequate knowledge and
skills whenever safety and security
mechanisms are implemented;
c. Performs such other functions asdirected.
Development
Management Officer I
a. Monitors, collaborates, cooperates and
participates in the training and development
programs conducted by the PSSO and other
safety and security clusters for their own
organic personnel;
b, Develops organizational linkages with external
safety and security training providers for their
possible future utilization and engagement;
c. Orchestrates training of CSU personnel and
Barangay Tanods in Security and Safety
Operations, Emergency Preparedness and
Disaster Response;
d. Performs such other functions as directed.
SECTION 13. APPOINTMENT ANDQUALIFICATION -The positions in the
Public Safety and Security Office (PSSO) shall be appointed by the City Mayor in
accordance with civil service laws and rules. The appointee shall meet the
qualification standards set by the Civil Service Commission. The qualifications of
the plantilla positions in the PSSO are as follows:
A. City Government Depaftment Head II (Public Safety and SecurityOfficer)
1. Bachelor's degree;
2. Five (5) years experience in public safety and security;
3. Training not required;
4. First Grade Civil Seruice Eligibility or itsequivalent.

Ord. No. 0742-21
B. Assistant City Government Department Head II (Assistant Public Safety
and Security Officer)
1. Bachelor's degree;
2. Three (3) years'experience in public safety and security;
3. Training not required;
4. First Grade Civil Seruice Eligibility or itsequivalent.
C. Qualifications of the regular positions in the Administrative Division are
as follows:
1. Superuising Administrative Officer (Administrative OfficerIV)
a. Bachelor's degree relevant to the job;
b. Three (3) years of relevantexperience;
c. Sixteen (!6) hours of relevant training;
d. Career Seruice Professional/Second Level Eligibility.
2. Administrative Officer III (Administrative OfficerV)
a. Bachelor's degree relevant to the job;
b. Two (2) years of relevant experience;
c. Eight (8) hours of relevant training;
d, Career Seruice (Professional) Second Level Eligibility.
3. Administrative Officer I (Supply Officer I)
a. Bachelor's degree;
b. One(l) year of relevant experience;
c. No experience required;
d. No training required.
4. Administrative Aide IV (Driver II)
a. ElementarySchoolgraduate;
b. No experience required;
c. No training required;
d. Professional Driver's License (CSC MC 10 s. 2013- Cat. IV).
5, Administrative Aide VI (Storekeeper II)
a. Completion of at least two (2) years in college;
b. No experience required;
c. No training required;
d. Career Service (Sub-professional) First Level Eligibility (CSC MC
10 s. 2019).

Ord. No. 0742-2L
6. Administrative Aide IV (ClerkII)
a. EIementary School graduate;
b. No experience required;
c. No trainlng required;
d. No career service eligibility required (CSC MC 10 s. 2013 - Cat. II).
D. Qualifications of the regular positions in the Operations and
Coordination Division are as follows:
1. Special Operations Officer IV
a. Bachelor's degree;
b. Three (3) years of relevant experience;
c. Sixteen (16) hours of relevant training;
d. Career Seruice (Professional) Second Level Eligibility.
2. Civil Security SECTION
a. Special Operations Officer III
i. Bachelor's degree;
ii. Two (2) years of relevant experience;
iii. Eight (B) hours of relevant training;
iv. Career Seruice (Professional) Second Level Eligibility.
b. Special Operations Officer II
i. Bachelor's degree relevant to the job;
ii. One (1) year of relevant experience;
iii. Four (4) hours of relevant training;
iv. Career Seryice (Professional) Second Level Eligibility
c. Special Operations Officer I
i. Bachelor's degree relevant to the job;
ii. Experience not required;
iii. Training not required;
iv. CareerSeruice (Professional) Second LevelEligibility.
3. Public Safety and Security Operations SECTION
a. Special Operations Officer II
i. Bachelor's degree relevant to the job;
ii. One (1) year of relevant experience;
iii. Four (4) hours of relevant training;
iv. Career Seruice (Professional) Second LevelEligibility.

Ord. No. 0742-21
b. Special Operations Officer I
i. Bachelor's degree relevant to the job;
ii. Experience not required;
iii. Training not required;
iv. Career Seruice (Professional) Second Level Eligibility.
c. Administrative Assistant Ill (Computer Operatorll)
i. Completion of two (2) years studies in college or High School
Graduate with relevant vocational/trade course
ii. One(l) year of relevant experience;
iii. Four (4) hours of relevant training;
iv. Eligibility for Data Encoder under CSC MC 6 s. 2010 or Career
Seruice (Sub-Professional) First Level Eligibility (CSC MC 6 s.
2020).
d. Administrative Aide VI (Communications Equipment Operator II)
i. Completion of two (2) years studies in college or High School
Graduate with relevant vocational/trade course;
ii. No experience required;
iii. No trainings required;
iv. Career Seruice Eligibility for Communications Equipment
Operator (CSC MC 10 s. 2013 - Cat. Ill).
E. Qualifications of the regular positions in the Intelligence Coordination
Division are as follows:
1. Special Operations Officer IV
a. Bachelor's degree;
b. Three (3) years of relevantexperience;
c. Sixteen (16) hoursof relevanttraining;
d. Career Seruice (Professional) Second Level Eligibility.
2. Special Operations Officer Ill
a. Bachelor's degree;
b. Two (2) years of relevant experience;
c. Eight (B) hours of relevant training;
d. Career Seruice (Professional) Second level Eligibility.
3. Intelligence Production SECTION
a. Special Operations OfficerII
i. Bachelor's degree relevant to the job;
ii. One (1) year of relevant experience;
iii. Four (4) hours of relevanttraining;
iv. Career Seruice (Professional) Second LevelEligibility.
i

Ord. No. 0742-2t
b. Special Operations Officer I
i. Bachelor's degree relevant to the job;
ii. Experience not required;
iii. Training not required;
iv. Career Seruice (Professional) Second Level Eligibility.
4. Intelligence Dissemination SECTION
a. Special Operations OfficerII
i. Bachelor's degree relevant to the job;
ii. One (1) year of relevant experience;
iii. Four (4) hours of relevanttraining;
iv. Career Seruice (Professional) Second LevelEligibility.
b. Special Operations Officer I
i. Bachelor's degree relevant to the job;
ii. Experience not required;
iii. Training not required;
iv. Career Seruice (Professional) Second Level Eligibility.
F. Qualifications of the regular positions in the Information System and
Technology Management Division are as follows:
1, Information Technology Officer II
a. Bachelor's degree relevant to thejob;
b. Three (3) years of relevantexperience;
c. Sixteen (16) hours of relevant training;
d. Career Seruice (Professional) Second Level Eligibility.
2. Information Technology Officer I
a. Bachelor's degree relevant to the job;
b. Two (2) years of relevant experience;
c. Eight (8) hours of relevant training;
d. Career Seruice (Professional) Second Level Eligibility
3. ICT Development SECTION
a. Information Systems Analyst II
i. Bachelor's degree relevant to the job;
ii. One (1) year of relevant experience;
iii. Four (4) hours of relevant training;
iv. Career Service (Professional) Second Level Eligibility.

Ord. No. 0742-21
b. Information Systems Researcher I
i. Bachelor's degree relevant to the job;
ii. One (1) year of relevant experience;
iii. Four (4) hours of relevant training;
iv. Career Seruice (Professional) Second Level Eligibility.
4. ICT Management and Support SECTION
a. Information Systems Analyst II
i. Bachelor's degree relevant to the job;
ii. One (1) year of relevant experience;
iii. Four (4) hours of relevant training;
iv. Career Seruice (Professional) Second Level Eligibility.
b. Information Systems Analyst I
i. Bachelor's degree relevant to the job;
ii. One (1) year of relevant experience;
iii. Four (4) hours of relevant training;
iv. Career Seruice (Professional) Second Level Eligibility.
c. Computer Maintenance Technologist I
i. Bachelor's degree relevant to the job;
ii. One (1) year of relevant experience;
iii. Four (4) hours of relevant training;
iv. Career Seruice (Professional) Second Level Eligibility.
d. Administrative Assistant II (Electronics and Communications
Equipment Technician 11 1)
i. Completion of two (2) years studies in college or High
School Graduate with relevant vocationaUtrade course;
ii. One (1) year of relevant experience;
iii. Four (4) hours of relevanttraining;
iv. Career Seruice Eligibility as Electronics Equipment Technician
(CSC MC 10 s. 2013 - Cat. II) or Career Seruice (Subprofessional) First Level Eligibility (CSC MC 6 s.2020)
G. Qualifications of the regular positions in the Development and Training
Division
1. Development Management OfficerIV
a. Bachelor's degree relevant to the job;
b. Three (3) years of relevantexperience;
c. Sixteen (16) hours of relevanttraining;
d. Career Seruice (Professional) Second Level Eligibility.

Ord. No. 0742-21
2. Planning and Research Sedion
a. Planning Officer II
i. Bachelor's degree relevant to the job;
ii. One (1) year of relevant experience;
iii. Four (4) hours of relevant training;
iv. CareerSeruice (Professional) Second LevelEligibility.
b. Planning Officer I
i. Bachelor's degree relevant to the job;
ii. Experience not required;
iii. Training not required;
iv. CareerSeruice (Professional) Second LevelEligibility.
3. Training and Development SECTION
a. Development Management OfficerII
i. Bachelor's degree relevant to the job;
ii. One (1) year of relevant experience;
iii. Four (4) hours of relevant training;
iv. Career Seruice (Professional) Second LevelEligibility.
b. Development Management OfficerI
i. Bachelor's degree relevant to the job;
ii. Experience not required;
iii. Training not required;
iv. CareerSeruice (Professional) Second LevelEligibility.
SECTION 14. MANPOWER COMPLEMENT - The City Mayor shall be allowed
to employ emergency personnel or laborers needed by the PSSO through Job Orders or
Contracts of Service based on the availability of budget pursuant to SECTION 77 of
Republic Act No. 7160, otheruvise known as the "Local Government Code of 1991".
SECTION 15, APPROPRIATION - The appropriation necessary for the
implementation of this Ordinance shall be included by the City Budget Officer in the
proposed Annual Budget of the City Government.
SECTION 16. EFFECTIVITY - This Ordinance shall take effect immediately upon
approval.
ENACTED, on the 26th day of October 2021, by a unanimous vote of all the
Members of the Sanggunian, there being a quorum.
I

I
Ord. No. 0742-2L
CERTIFIED CORRECT:
,,QlaM*:rfrfo,
Secretary to the Sanggunfing Panlungsod
(City Government Depaftment Head II)^/
ATTESTED:
ELLA
CitY
Temporary
ng Officer
ncilor
wL L'l
APPROVED: DEC I 7 NN ,2O2L
ct CiW MuyV
ATTESTED:
LEIKA
Admini
AN ORDINANCE CREATING THE PUBLIC SAFETY AND SECURITY OFFICE IN THE CITY OF DAVAO, DEFINING
ITS DUNES AND FUNCIIONS, AND APPROPRIATING FUNDS FOR THE PURPOSE
z