Republic of tde Philippines
19th City Council
5h Regular Session
SERIES of ZOZL
PR.ESE]iT:
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Counciior
Councilor
Councilor
Councflor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
ABSENT:
Edgar P. Ibuyan Jr.
- Temporary Presiding Officer
Ralph O. Abella
Nilo D. Abellera
Maria Beien S. Acosta
Bai Hundra Cassandra Dominique N. Advincula
Wilberto E. Al-ag
Dante L. Aposto[ Sr.
Conrado C. Baluran
Jessica M. Bonguyan
Louie John J. Bonguyan
Pilar C. Braga
Augusto Javier G. Campos III
Danilo C. Dayanghirang
Jonard C. Dayap
Edgar R. tbuyan Sr.
Richlyn N. lustol-Baguilod
Pamela A. Librado-Morata
Diosdado Angelo Junior R. Mahipus
Jaffar U. Marohomsalic
Bonifacio E. Militar
Myrna G. L'Dalodo-Oftiz
Antoinette G. Principe-Castrodes
J. Melchor B. Quitain Jr.
Alberto T. Ungab
Mary Joselle D. Villafuerte
Jesus Joseph P.Zozobrado III
Vice Mayor Sebastian Z. Duterte
- On Official Business
ORDINANCE O474.2L
SERIES of 2OZL
Ail
ORDINANCE DEFINING GENDER.BASED SEXUAL
HARASSMENT (GBSH) IN STREETS, PUBLIC SPACES, ONLINE,
woRKPtacEs, oR EDUCATIONAL AND TRAINING INSTITUTIONS
UtI DAVAO C[TY, AI-SO KNOWN AS THE *SAFE SPACES
OR"DINANCE OF DAVAO CITY"

Ord. No. 0474-21
ARTICLE I
TITLE AND GENERAL POLICY
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE - This Ordinance shall be known as the "Safe
Spaces Ordinance of Davao City".
SECTION 2. DECLARATION OF POLICIES OF THE CITY GOVERNMENT
OF DAVAO - It shal! be the policy of the Local Government of Davao City to uphold
and value the dignity of every human person and guarantee full respect for human
rights. Consistent with the UN Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of
Discrimination Against Women (CEDAW), Republic Act No. 97L0, or the Magna Carta of
Women's Rights and Republic Act No. 11313, or the Safe Spaces Act, it is likewise the
policy of the City Government of Davao to guarantee the equality of men and women
so they may enjoy the full beneflts of development free and safe from all forms of
gender-based harassment, not only in private but also in public spaces and online
spaces.
ARTICLE II
DEFINITION OF TERMS
SECTION 3. DEFINITION OF TERMS - As used in this Ordinance, the
following terms are defined as follows:
(a)
(b)
Act refers to Republic Act No. 11313, or the "safe Spaces Act".
By-stander or locally known as"tambay''refers to a person or group of
persons loafing in a public space, who, whether on a single occasion or on
repeated frequency, idles time away in conspicuous places for a
considerable amount of time without clear business, purpose or
occupation.
(c) Catcalling refers to unwanted remarks directed towards a person,
commonly done in the form of wolf-whistling and misogynistic,
transphobic, homophobic and sexist slurs.
(d) Common carriers refer to persons, corporations, firms or associations
engaged in the business of carrying or transporting passengers or goods
or both, by land, water, or air, for compensation, offering their seruices to
the public.
(e)
cyberstalking is a form of stalking that is committed through an
electronic medium in which online communication takes place.
(0 Employee refers to a person, who in exchange for renumeration, agrees
to peform specified seryices for another person, whether natural or
juridical, and whether private or public, who exercises fundamental
control over the work, regardless of the term or duration of agreement:
Provided, that for purposes of this law, a person who is detailed to an
entity under a subcontracting or secondment agreement shall be
considered an employee;
(g) Employer refers to a person who exercises control over an employee:
Provided, that for the purpose of this Act, the status or conditions of the
latter's employment or engagement shall be disregarded;

Page 3 of 11.
Ord. No. 0474-2L
(h) Gender refers to a set of socially ascribed characteristics, norms, rotes,
attitudes, values and expectations identifuing the social behavior of men
and women, and the relations between them;
(i) Gender-based online sexual harassment refers to an ontine conduct
targeted at a particular person that causes or likely to cause another
mental, emotional or psychological distress and fear of personal safety,
sexual harassment acts, including unwanted sexual remarks and
comments, threats, uploading or sharing of one's photos without consent,
video and audio recordings, ryberstalking and ontine identify theft.
0) Gender expression refers to the outward manifestations of the cultural
traits that enable a person to identiff as male or female according to
patterns that, at a particular moment in history, a given society definel as
gender appropriate.
(k) Gender Identity refers to personal sense of identity as characterized,
among others, by manner of clothing, inclinations, and behavior in relation
to masculine or feminine conventions. A person may have a male or
female identity with the physiological characteristics of the opposite sex.
(l) Homophobic remarks or slurs are any statements in whatever form or
however delivered, which are indicative of fear, hatred or aversion
towards persons who are perceived to be or actually identified as lesbian,
gay, bisexual, queer, pansexual and such other persons of diverse sexual
orientation, gender identity or expression, or towards any person
perceived to or actually have experienced same-sex attraction.
(m) Information and communication system refers to a system for
generating, sending, receiving, storing or othennrise processing electronic
data messages or electronic documents and includes the computer system
or other similar devices by or in which data are recorded or stored and
any procedure related to the recording or storage of electronic data
messages or electronic documents.
(n) Information and Communications Technology or ICT shall mean
the totality of electronic means to access, create, collect, store, process,
receive, transmit, present and disseminate information.
(o) Misogynistic remarks or slurs are any statements in whatever form or
however delivered, that are indicative of the feeling of hating women or
the belief that men are inherently better than women.
(p) Public spaces refer to streets and alleys, public parks, schools, buildings,
malls, bars, restaurants, transportation terminals, public markets, spaces
used as evacuation centers, government offices, public utility vehicies as
well as private vehicles covered by app-based transport network seryices
and other recreational spaces such as, but not limited to, cinema halls,
theaters and spas;
(q) Sexist remarks or slurs are statements in whatever form or however
delivered, that are indicative of prejudice, stereotyping, or discrimination
on the basis of sex, typically against women.

(r)
Page4ofl1
Ord. No. 0474-2L
Transphobic remarks or slurs are any statements in whatever form or
however delivered, that are indicative of fear, hatred or aversion towards
persons whose gender identity and/or expression do not conform with
their sex assigned at birth.
(s) Stalking refers to conduct directed at a person involving the repeated
visual or physical proximity, non-consensual communication or a
combination thereof that cause or will likely cause a person to fear for
one's own safety or the safety of others, or to suffer emotiona! distress.
(t) Workplaces include all sites, locations, spaces, where work is being
undeftaken by an employee within or outside the premises of the usual
place of business of the employer.
ARTICLE III
GENDER.BASED SEXUAL HARASSMENT
SECTION 4. ACTS OF GENDER.BASED SEXUAL HARASSMENT - The
offenses of gender-based sexual harassment are committed through any unwanted,
unsolicited, unwelcomed actions of a sexual nature or remarks referring to a person's
sex, gender and/or sexuality, regardless of the motive for committing such action or
remarks, provided fufther that, the positions, hierarchy and stature of the perpetrator
and victim shall not matter in considering the act as gender-based sexual harassment.
It may include the following, among others:
a. Catcalling, wolf-whistling, unwanted invitations, misogynistic, transphobic,
homophobic, and sexist slurs;
b. Persistent uninvited comments or gestures on a person's appearance;
c. Relentless requests for personal details;
d. Statement of sexual comments and suggestions;
e. Public masturbation or flashing of private pafts, groping, making offensive
body gestures at someone, and other similar lewd sexua! actions;
f. Any advances, whether verbal or physical, that is unwanted and has
threatened one's sense of personal space and physical safety. This may
include cursing, leering and intrusive gazing, and taunting;
g. Persistent telling of sexual jokes, use of sexual names; and
h. Stalking.
It may also be committed through online spaces using information and
communications technology by harassing, intimidating or threatening the victim
through:
a) Physical, psychological, and emotional threats, unwanted sexual misogynistic,
transphobic, homophobic and sexist remarks and comments online whether
publicly or through direct and private messages;
b) Invasion of the victim's privary through ryberstalking and incessant
messaging;
c) Uploading and sharing without the consent of the victim any form of media
that contains photos, voice, or video with sexual content;
d) Any unauthorized recording and sharing of any of the victim's photos, videos
or any information online;
e) Impersonating identities of victims online or posting lies about victims to
harm their reputation; or
f) Filing false abuse repofts to online platforms to silence victims.

B?3:^?.:f\l*.,,
.
In workplaces, educational and training institutions, gender-based sexual
harassment may be committed through an act or SERIES of acts involving any
unwelcome sexual advances, requests or demands for sexuat favors or any ict oi
sexual nature, whether done verbally, physically, or through the use of technology such
as text messaging or electronic mail or through any other forms of information and
communications system that creates a hostile environment affecting an individual's
employment, education, training, job performance and/or opportunities, regardless of
whether the sexual advances, requests or demands for sexual favors be aicepted or
not.
SECTION 5. SPACES WHERE GENDER.BASED SEXUAL HARASSMENT
MAY BE COMMITTED - The Acts of Gender-Based Sexual narassment rnay ne
committed in the following spaces, places and/or environment:
a) Streets and public places;
b) Restaurants, cafes, bars and clubs;
c) Resofts, water parks, hotels, casinos, public parks;
d) Cinemas, malls, buildings, facilities and other privately-owned places open to the
public;
e) Public Utility Vehicles;
f) online spaces using information and communications technology;
g) Workplaces and extensions of workplace;
h) Educational and training institutions, whether public or private; and
i) Other places analogous to the foregoing.
ARTICLE IV
MECHANISMS TO IMPLEMENT ANTI.GBSH
SECTION 6. IMPLEMENTIN9 ANTI-GENDER-BASED SEXUAL HAR/ASSMENT
IN STREETS AND PUBLTC PLACES - Every barangay must effi
is enforced by:
a) Creating their Barangay Anti-sexual Harassment Enforcers and Responders
(BASHER) to monitor the implementation of the provisions of this Ordinance
relative to the prevention and elimination of gender-based sexual harassment in
streets and public places within the jurisdiction of the barangay. Members of
BASHER shall also be designated by the punong barangay as primary responders
to GBSH committed in the streets and public places within the jurisdiction'of their
barangay;
Barangay Tanods may also be designated as members of BASHER who may
receive complaints on the streets and public places within the jurisdiction of the
barangay, immediately apprehend the perpetrator if caught ii flagrante delicto
and bring the perpetrator to the barangay for initial case assessment, recording
and/or filing of case, as deemed appropriate;
b) Establishing a Committee on Anti-Sexual Harassment (CASH) within the Lupon
ng Tagapamayapa that shall receive cases involving acts of gender-based sexual
harassment in streets and public places;
c) Designating the Barangay Council Committee on Women and Children, together
with the BASHER and CASH, to lead the barangay in implementing information
dissemination campaigns, education programs ind other advocacy activities on
ending all forms of gender-based sexual harassment in streets and public places;

,i
Ord. No. 0471-2L
d) Keeping a logbook.of complaints containing the names of the pafties involved,
acts complained of, date of the incident and status of the case, among othersj
and
e) Providing necessary seruices or referral to appropriate institutions and agencies
to address the medical, psychological, legai and other practical needs of the
victim.
SECTION 7. NLE OF DCPO AND CTTMO - In the major thoroughfares,
avenues and streels of the City of Davao, the Davao City Police Office tO6pOl in
coordination with -the City Transport and Traffic Management Office (CITMO), ihall
designate their enforcers and agents to respond to GBSH committed in the streels or in
public utility vehicles.
sEcrIoN 8. MANpATOBY TRATNTNG FOR BARANGAYS, pcpo ANp
CTTMO - All barangay officials, functionaries, person
CTTMO enforcers and agents are required to undergo a Gender Sensitivity Training
which will include sessions on Gender-Based Sexual Hirassment and RA No. 11313 and
this Ordinance.
SECTION 9. ROLE OF CSWDO - In case one or more of the accused or the
victim is a minor, the City Social Welfare and Development Office (CSWDO) shall be the
responsible agency which shall respond to the GBSH committed in a non-school setting.
SECTION 10. IMPLEMENTING ANTI.GBSH IN RESTAURANTS, CAFES,
qARS.CLUBS, RESORTS, WATER PARKS, PUBLIC pARKm
CINEMAS. MALLS. BUILDINGS. FACILITIES AND O
PLACES OPEN TO THE PUBLIC - The management of restaurry
clubs, resofts, water parks, public parks, hotels, casinos, cinemas, malls, OuitOings,
facilities and other privately-owned places open to the public shall adopt a poliry of z5ro
tolerance in their establishments against GBSH in public places. This poliry shai! include
installation of visible signages against GBSH, designating a GBSH personnel to whom
complaints may be raised and assistance may be sought, making CCTV footages
available when ordered by the coufts, and designating the secuiity personnel to
apprehend perpetrators of GBSH, when such acts are committed in plain view.
SECTION 11. IMPLEMENTING ANTI-GBSH IN PUBLIC UTILIil
VEHICLES - Operators of public utility vehicles must ensure tnat sticfers, Oecat+
flyers, electronic ads or any informational material must be posted, shown and/oi
distributed, as the case may be, to the passengers which shali indicate the numbers
they can contact to report a complaint involving GBSH committed by the driver,
"konduktor," or by other passengers.
SECTION 12. IMPLEMENTING ANTI.GENDER BASED ONLINE SEXUAL
HARASSMENT - The DCPO Anti-Cybercrime Unit shall be primartly responsible in
implementing the pertinent provisions of this Ordinance relative to oniine GBSH. The
responsibility shall include the following, among others: receive complaints of online
GBSH, develop an online mechanism for reporting real-time online GBSH, and
apprehend perpetrators of online GBSH.
SECTION 13. IMPLEMENTING ANTI-GBSH IN WORKPLACES - Employers
are expected to prevent, deter, act upon and/or punish acts of GBSH in the woikpiace
through, but not limited to, the following:

' r'
Ord. No. 0474-2L
a) Develop, formulate, and disseminate an institutional policy against GBSH in the
workplace, informed and inspired by RA 11313 and this OrdinJnce, and expressty
providing the procedures, steps and processes in filing a complaint along with
the corresponding administrative penalties for the acts o] CgS!{ committedf
b) Integrate anti-GBSH seminars, training and growth sessions in the
establishment's personnel development plans, induction program and other
organizational improvement initiatives; and
c) Create an independent Committee on Decorum and Investigation (CODI) to
investigate, try, hear and decide cases of GBSH in the workplace.
SECTION 14. IMPLEMENTING ANTI-GBSH IN EDUCATIONAL AND
IMIIIING-INSTITUTIONS - Educational and training
higher education units and vocational and technologicat schools, whether public or
private, are expected to ensure that no acts of CgSl-l are committed within their
premises and/or in places considered as an extension of their education or training
functions. Towards this end, the education and training institutions shall:
a) Create an independent Committee on Decorum and Investigation (CODI) to
investigate, trY, hear and decide cases of GBSH in educational anl training
institutions. This committee shall also take the lead in formulating an institutional
policy against GBSH upon consultation with the administratori, faculty, staff,
students, parents in the case of basic education units, and employee,s'unions
when applicable. Furthermore, the CODI shall also plan, implement, monitor and
evaluate programs, projects and activities that promote the institution as a
gender-sensitive envi ron ment;
b) Designate an anti-GBSH officer to whom complaints may be raised or assistance
may be sought in addressing acts of GBSH;
c) Conduct periodic information dissemination activities, including the contents of
RA 11313 and this Ordinance, in order to prevent the commission of acts of
GBSH;
d) Ensure that anti-GBSH activities are included in the ptans of the student
government/councils, clubs or organizations;
e) Encourage the integration of anti-GBSH in the curricular and co-curricular
activities of courses or subjects, where possible. In case one or more of the
accused or the victim is a minor, the provisions of Department Order No. 40,
SERIES of 20L2, will suppletorily apply.
ARTICLE V
INFORMATION DISSEMINATION TO PREVENT GENDER-BASED
SEXUAL HARASSMENT
sEcrIoN 15. pOSTING OF, COpy oF sAFE SpACES Afi AND
qRprNANcE - The City Government of oava@rmation
onrce
shall ensure an adequate information dissemination regJrding lre iignts and obligations
of persons entailed in the Safe Spaces Act as well a! tnisbrdinaice. Hence, it snalt
disseminate or post in conspicuous places of the city a copy of the Act and this
Ordinance.

' Page 8 of 11
Ord. No. 0474-2L
Conspicuous.places of the city are areas where immense number of people are
situated on a daily basis and where it is conducive for them to read the Act and the
corresponding Ordinance posted therein. It shall include, but not limited to, streets and
alleys, public parks, public schools, public hospitals, buildings, transpoftation terminals,
public markets, spaces used as evacuation centers and government offices. The City
Information Office may also optimize the mainstream -and social media spaces to
popularize the Act and this Ordinance.
SECTION 16. INFORMATIQN CAMPAIGNS AT PUBLIC SPACES - The City
Government of Davao, through the City Information Office anO in coorOination with the
Integrated Gender and Development Division of the City Mayor's Office, shall conduct
information campaigns at public spaces by coordinating with the barangay tocal
government units. Such information campaign shall be conducted in each baiangay of
the city.
Persons responsible for the information campaign must be knowledgeable of the
salient features of the Act and the corresponding Ordinance and have th6 capacity to
communicate and explain such features to the persons in their target area.
Fufthermore, they should be able to identify the unsafe places in the barangay or
those areas which are susceptible for the commission of the gender-based iexual
harassment, such as corners of the streets with bystanders or..tam-bays,,.
SECTION 17. INFORMATION CAMPAIGNS IN EDUCATIONAL
TNSTTTUTTONS By THE CITY GOVERNMENT OF pAVA
of Davao, through the City Information Office and in coordination with the Integrated
Gender and Development Division of the City Mayor's Office, shall conduct inforriation
campaigns through educational institutions as required by the Act.
Information campaigns may include anti-sexual harassment seminars or any
other activity that would ensure a captured-audience when imparting the knowleOge ai
to the rights and obligations of the persons named in the Act as weft as this Ordinince.
The Local Government is given the discretion to choose which specific educational
institutions within Davao City and at what level it intends to conduct such information
campaign.
In case of a private educational institution chosen to be a venue for such
information campaign, it shall require the consent from the head of the institution
before conducting the activity. Private educationa! institutions are encouraged to
commit their support in implementing the Act and the corresponding Ordinaice by
coordinating with the City Government and make available theii premiies for the said
campaign.
ARTICLE VI
SPECIFIC DUTIES OF THE CITY GOVERNMENT OF DAVAO
SECTION 18. DUTY OF IGDD - The Integrated Gender and Development
Division (IGDD) of the City Mayor's Office shall have the primary duty to ensure that the
provisions of this Ordinance, in relation to the Act, are implemenied, monitored and
evaluated, in coordination with the appropriate government agencies. Fufthermore,
I_G_?D shall be responsible in interpreting whether [he use of word or action constitute a
GBSH offense as provided in the Act or Ordinance taking into consideration the nature
and meaning of such word using community standards and context.

OrC. No. 0474-Zt
SECTION 19. DUTY TO PROVIDE ANTI.SEXUAL HARASSMENT.HOTLINE
-'The City Government of Davao, in coordination with Davao City Police Office, must set
up an anti-sexual harassment hotline, made available to the public, and necessary to
address the immediate complaints of a person whose rights are violated in accordance
with the Act and this Ordinance.
The Integrated Gender and Development Division (IGDD) and the City Social
Welfare and Development Office (CSWDO) may also set up their respective hotiines for
the appropriate seruices they may provide the victims of GBSH. IGDD shall keep a
database of the cases of GBSH in accordance with the Act and this Ordinance.
SECTION 20, ROUTINE INSPECTION The Local Government shall
coordinate with proper government agencies in order to ensure compliance of the
provisions on information dissemination as provided in Article V of this Ordinance.
IGDD shall coordinate with the Depaftment of Labor and Employment (DOLE),
for private sector and Civil Seruice Commission (CSC), for public sector, to ionduit
yearly spontaneous routine inspection in restaurants, cafes, bars, clubs, resofts, water
parks, public parks, hotels, casinos, cinemas, malls, buildings, facilities and other
privately-owned places open to the public.
IGDD shal! coordinate with the Department of Education (DepEd), Commission
on Higher Education (CHED), and Technical Education and Skills Devetopment Authority
(TESDA) in conducting yearly spontaneous routine inspection in the educational
institutions.
SECTION 21. ROLE OF NCIP - The office of the National Commission on
Indigenous People (NCIP) shall aid the City Government of Davao in interpreting
whether the use of word or action may fall as an exemption from an offense ai
provided in the Act on the basis of cultural and ethnic contextualization.
SECTION 22. PRESEBVATION OF CCTV FOOTAGE AND OTHER FORMS
OF EVIDENCE - Public and private establishments shall be obliged to presetve the'tr
CCTV footage, if any, and other forms of evidence that can be used in proving the
violations committed. Upon lawful order of the court, it shall make the CCW footage
and other forms of evidence available to the person/s in authority as required.
ARTTCLE VII
PENALTY
SECTION 23. PENALTY FOB GBSH COMMITTED BY INDMDUALS - Any
person or persons committing acts of GBSH in streets and public spaces, as well as in
restaurants, cafes, bars, clubs, resofts, water parks, public parks, hotels, casinos,
cinemas, malls, buildings, facilities and other privately-owned places open to tne public
and in online spaces, public utility vehicles and without prejudice to their administrative
liabilities under their respective policies, individuals committing GBSH in workplaces,
educational and training institutions shalr be penalized as followsJ
a) First offense - A fine of p1,000 and community seruice for one (1) day;
b) Second Offense - A fine of P3,000 and community seruice for fifteen giSy Oays;
c) Third and Succeeding Offenses - A fine of P5,000 and imprisonmeni of one (ry
month
all stages of offense, a mandatory seminar on Anti-GBSH provided by IGDD
shall be mandatory.

pug.lOofll
Ord. No. 0414-ZI
SECTION 24. PENALTY FOR OPERATORS OF PUBLIC UTILITY
VEHICLES, EMPLOYERS AND SCH
TRAINING INSTUTUTIONS - Operators of public utility vehicles who are found to
have committed acts constituting GBSH shall be penatized pursuant to SECTION 6, Afticte
I of Republic Act No. 11313.
Employers and school heads in educational and training institutions who are
found to be negligent or who fail to fulfil! their duties under this Ordinance shail, upon
conviction of the court, be penalized as follows:
a) First Offense - A fine of not less than P500.00 but not more than p1,000.00 at
the discretion of the Court;
b) Second Offense - A fine of not less than P1,000.00 but not more than p3,000.00
and/or suspension of business permit and license to operate for at least three (3)
months but not more than six (6), at the discretion of the couft;
c) Third Offense - A fine of not less than P3,000.00 but not more than p5,000.00
and/or revocation of business permit and license to operate, at the discretion of
the Court.
ARTICLE VII
FINAL PROVISIONS
SECTION 25. ANTI-GBSH DAY COMMEMORATION - Following the date
when the original Anti-Sexual Harassment Act of 1995 was signed, the City Government
of Davao shall designate, February L4, as the Anti-GBSH Day when IGDD as lead and in
solidarity with the government agencies, non-government organizations, and private
entities come together to intensify the campaign against GBSH in the City of Davao.
SECTION 26. CONFIDENTIALIW RULE - All investigations conducted in
relation to the Act and this Ordinance shal! be done in utmost respect for the privary
and confidentiality of the victims and the perpetrators, especialty when a minor is
involved.
SECTION 27. IMPLEMENTING RULES AND REGULATIONS (IRR) - A
Technical Working Group shall be formed to draft the tmplenrenting Rules and
Regulations of this Ordinance. The IRR shall be formulated within sixty (6b) days from
the effectivity of this Ordinance.
SECTION 28. APPROPRIATIONS - The implementation of this Ordinance
shall be indicated in the Annual Budget of the City Government of Davao, charged to
the City's Annual GAD Budget pursuant to Republic Act No. 9710, or the Magna Cirta of
Women's Rights.
SECTION 29. SEPARABILITY CLAUSE - If for any reason, any SECTION or
provision of this Ordinance is declared unconstitutional or invalid, other'sections or
provisions hereof which are not affected thereby shall continue to be in full force and
effect.
SECTION 30' REPEALING CLAUSE - All Ordinances, local issuances or rules
inconsistent with the provisions of this Ordinance are hereby repealed or modified
accordingly.
SECTION 31. EFFECTMTY - This Ordinance shall take effect upon approval
and after publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the City of Davao.

ii
Page 11 gf 11
Ord. No. A474!2L
ENACTED, on the 2nd day of February 2021by a unanimous vote of all the
members of the Sanggunian, there being a quorum.
CERTIFIED CORRECT:
,-rF@
Dbitally r*fsd by Santos
Charito tlarib
Date: 2021.@.26 16:05:3
+08:00
R€ason: , hare t€viorcd
cnEnrfU*f{IbnNros
Secretary to the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod
(City Government Depaftment Head II)
ATTESTED:
President
Temporary Presiding Officer
cns/johanna
olv z
APPROVED
MAR 2 3 2021
202L
A^^'
DUTERTE
.o Citl Mayor 4
ATTESTED:
ATTY
LEIKA
LOPEZ
City
An Ordinance defining Gender-Based Sexual Harassment (GBSH) in streets, public
spaces, online, workplaces, or educational and training instituUons in Davao City, also
known as the'tSafe Spaces Ordinance of Davao City"