19th City Council
45tr Regular Session
SERIES of 2021
PRESENT:
Ofrice of the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod
Sebastian Z. Dutefte
Maria Belen S. Acosta
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Edgar P. Ibuyan Jr.
- Temporary Presiding Officer
Ralph O. Abella
Nilo D. Abellera
Bai Hundra C-assandra Dominique N. Advincula
Wilbefto E. Al-ag
Dante L. Apostol Sr.
Conrado C. Baluran
Jessica M. Bonguyan
Louie John J. Bonguyan
Pilar C. Braga
Augusto Javier G. Campos III
Danilo C. Dayanghirang
Jonard C. Dayap
Edgar R. Ibuyan Sr.
Pamela A. Librado-Morata
Diosdado Angelo Junior R. Mahipus
Jaffar U. Marohomsalic
Myrna G. LDalodo-Ortiz
Antoinette G. Principe-Castrodes
J. Melchor B. Quitain Jr.
Albefto T. Ungab
Mary loselle D. Villafuerte
Jesus Joseph P. Zozobrado III
ABSENT:
Vice Mayor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Richlyn N. Justol-Baguilod
Bonifacio E. Militar
- On Official Business
- OB- Attended the Year End
Evaluation and oath taking
Ceremony of Talomo B District
Women's Federation
- On Maternity Leave
- On Sick Leave
oRDINAI{CE NO. 0816-21
SERIES of 2O21
AN ORDINANCE MODERNIZING AND STRENGTHENING
THE DAVAO CITY LIBRARY AND INFORMATION CENTER
rl

Ord. No. 0815-21
Be it ordained by the Honorable SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod of Davao City, in session
assembled, that:
SECTION 1. IIIIE. - This Ordinance shall be known as the *DAVAO CITY
LIBRARY AND INFORMATION CENTER ORDINAJ{CE".
SECTION 2. DEC]ARATION OF PRINCIPLES
1. Republic Art No. 7743 declares as national policy to promote the moral and
intellectual well-being of the people: elevate the literary level of every Filipino
to the end that illiteracy is eradicated by the end of the century; and recognize
the vital role of knowledge and information in nation-building by establishing
public libraries all over the country. The local government is committed to
upgrade, update and modernize its library in keeping with the times.
2. Republic Act No. 9246, SERIES of 2003 entitled "An Act Modernizing the Practice
of Librarianship in the Philippines Thereby Repealing Republic Act No. 6966,
entitled "An Act Regulating the Practice of Librarianship and Prescribing the
Qualifications of Librarians Appropriating Funds Therefor and for Other
Purposesi otherwise known as "The Philippine Librarianship Act of 2003",
declares that the State recognizes the essential role of the librarianship as a
profession in developing the intellectual capacity of the citizenry, thus, making
library service a regular component for national development.
SECTION 3. DEFINffiOI{ OF TERMS. - For the purpose of this Ordinance, the
following terms shall be understood hereinafter to mean as:
a. Archives - shall refer to periodicals, books and other items, articles or materials,
whether in form of electronic, audio-visual or print which by their nature and
characteristics have enduring values, that have been selected for permanent
preseruation;
b. City Library - a public library located, established, maintained, and suppofted by
the city government and primarily for the use of the residents of the city;
c. Librarian - refers to an individual who is a bona fide holder of a Certificate of
Registration and Professional Identification Card issued by the Professional
Regulatory Board for Librarians and by the Professional Regulation Commission in
accordance with Republic Act No. 9246;
d. Librarianship - refers to the perbrmance of the librarian's functions, which shall
include, but not be limited to, the following:
d.1. Selection and acquisition of multi-media sources of information which
would best respond to clientele's need for adequate, relevant and timely
information;
d.2. Cataloguing and classificaUon of knowledge or sources of information into
relevant organized collections and creation of local databases for speedy
access, retrieval or delivery of information;
,t

Ord. No. 0816-21
d.3. Development of computer-assisted/computer-backed information
systems which would permit online and network services;
d.4. Establishment of library systems and procedures; dissemination of
information; rendering of information, reference and research assistance;
archiving; and education of users;
d.5. Teaching, lecturing and reviewing of Iibrary, archives and information
science subjects, including subjects given in the licensure examination;
d.6. Rendering of services involving technical knowledge/expeftise in
abstracting, indexing, cataloguing and classiffing; or the preparation of
bibliographies, subject authority lists, thesauri and union catalogues/lists;
d.7. Preparation, evaluation or appraisal of plans, programs and/or pCIects
for the establishment organization, development and growth of libraries
or information centers, and the determination of Iibrary requirements for
space, buildings, sffiuctures or facilities;
d.B, Provision of professional and consultancy services or advice on any aspect
of librarianship; and
d.9. Organization, conseryation, preseruation and restoration of historical and
cultural documents and other intellectual properties.
SECTION 4. THE MISSION OF THE LIBRARY.
1. The Iibrary is a place for the preservation of knowledge, culture, art, history -
a connection to our collective intellectual past. If the church is the symbol of
religion, libraries are a symbol of learning.
2. The library is not just a mere repository of books - it is an impoftant
government edifice housed in a building that possesses both dignity of
appearance and convenience of location, saftty and comfoft, beautiful and
functional space.
3. The library exists to serue the community (children, men and women, young
and old, rich and poor) without discrimination, where one can study or do
research and at the same time enjoy its offerings and ambiance.
SECTION 5. THE PURPOSE OF THE CITY IIBRARY.
1. The City Library is a public library established, maintained and suppofted by the
city government primarily for the use of the residents of the City.
2. The City Library is a public library for the purpose of providing resources and
seruices using a variety of media to meet the needs of individuals or groups for
education, information and personaldevelopment including recreation and leisure.
3. The City Library shall strive to meet the needs of all groups in the community
regardless of age and physical, economic or social circumstances with special
responsibility to meet the needs of children and young people.
q

Ord. No. 0816-21
4. The City Library shall serye as the center of information making all kinds of
information and knowledge readily available to its users.
5. The City Library shall help shape, promote and support the cultural identity of the
City.
6. The City Library shall strive to utilize modern technology to better serve its users
for education and information purposes.
SECTION 6. LOGO/SEAL
Davao City Library and Information Center recognized the need to have a logo/seal
that will represent the aspirations of the Davao City Library and Information Center.
The Davao C:ty Library logo/seal is likewise necessary to identiff official
transactions and documents of the library.
There is a need for a representation of a simple, legible and modern seal to
complement the modernization and rebranding of the new City Library seruices and
facilities.
As per Resolution No. 002, SERIES of 202L of the Davao City Library Board it
approved the official seal or logo of the Davao City Library and Information Center, as
shown below:
The icons on the seal shall represent the following:
1. Row of Book Spine - represents literacy and learning, the main thrust of
the library, the pillars/spines also represent learning and strength as the
libraries build neighbors and communities;
2. Mt. Apo - represents the wisdom and knowledge as Apo etymology means
"reveled elders" who passed on their wisdom and knowledge. Like the
revered elderc, the library is the repository and source of wisdom and
knowledge for the different generations of Davaoefios;
3. Silhouette of Mt. Apo - represents the library user's learning curue of the
cycle of learning or inner elevation and represents out rycle of learning and
symbolizes the mission of the library to foster learning and promote literacy
4. The color blue is known for its trust and dependability and symbolizes
responsibility and dependability of the library to provide information
towards producing a more inspired, empowered and connected diverse
community.
B
lr
^&r
T Y
Ic
t
\r
r
N
Io
aq
o
o

Ord. No. 0815-21
SECTION 6.
CENTER - In accordance with the Revised Standards for Philippine Public Libraries, the
following are the functions of the Davao City Library and Information Center:
1. Administration
a. Administratively, the library shall operate under the administrative
supervision of the local government and under technical expertise of the
National Library of the Philippines (NtP);
b. The library shall be under the immediate superuision of the City Mayor;
c. The library shall be managed by a fulltime qualified librarian supported by
the needed number of staff for its efficient operation;
d. The library shall be subject to the policies and guidelines of the Davao City
Library Board headed by the City Mayor;
2. Collection Management
a. The collections shall be based on the objective of the library and the needs
of the community it serues;
b. The library shall maintain a collection of local history, culture and arts;
c. The collection shall include materials in all furmats and shall be organized
according to existing standards;
d. The overall collections should also be updated and upgraded to conform to
modern technology;
e. The Chief Librarian shall prepare an annual collection development plan and
annual budget to be presented to the Library Board;
f. There shall be a minimum collection of three thousand (3,000) volumes of
and a provision of at least five percent (5olo) annual increase of the
collection required;
g. The library shall provide amenities such as audio-visual facilities, activity
center, cafd (access to food), urban gardening (at the roof top) and others.
3. Seruices and Utilization
a. The library shall provide seruices with the highest degree of efficiency and
integrity;
b. The library shall practice open-shelf system;
c. The library shall have a website to promote its seruices and activities;
d. The library shall provide resources for wholesome development of the
community, without any discrimination;
e. The library must have a children's corner, where children could obtain
information through reading books, focused and unobstructed from other
readers and researchers, etc., and where educational enhancement
activities can be held;
f. The library shall obserue service hours for the maximum benefit of its
clients;
g. Maintenance and Other Operating Erpenses (MOOE) shall include, among
others, funds for capability, trainings, (seminars, conference, etc.)
subscriptions and others;
h. Capital outlay to include funds to purchase library resources, equipment,
furniture and others.
f
i

Ord. No. 0816-21
4. Linkages, Networking and Collaboration
a. The library shall engage in networking, resource sharing and other forms of
paftnership relevant to its mandate;
b. The library shall pursue continuing library education and membership to
professional associations to fufther enhance learning;
c. The library shall serue as a social hub for its paftners to promote goodwill
between government and the community (public or private);
d. The library shall help organize Barangay Reading Centers in all barangays
in coordination with the Barangay Council, based on Republic Act No.7743.
5. Information Technology Facilities and Seruices
a. The library shall provide WiFi connectivity and other facilities for information
technology and communication seruices.
SECTIOil 7.
- In accordance
with Republic Act 7743 and in consonance with Executive Order 55, SERIES of 2019, of
Davao City, the Davao City Local Library Board is hereby created and organized which
will act as an advisory body and policy-setting authority in fulfilling the mandate of
delivering quality service, providing stability, and continuing its services to the
community.
SECTION 8.
- The composition of the Davao
City Library Board as mandated by Executive Order 55, SERIES of 2019, are as follows:
- City Mayor
- School Division Superintendent
Depaflrnent of Education
Members
- Chairperson, SP Committee on Education
- City Treasurer
- City Budget Officer
- Representative, SANGGUNIANG Kabataan
- Chairperson, Phil. Librarian Association
Davao Chapter
The Chairperson, the Vice-Chairperson and the members of the Library Board shall
peform their duties as such without compensation or remuneration. Members thereof
who are not government officials or employees shall be entitled to necessary traveling
expenses and allowance which are chargeable against the funds of the Local Library
Board, subject to existing accounting and auditing rules and regulations.
SECTION 9.
-The Local Library Board shall have
the following functions:
1. Shall be the policy-making body of the Davao City Ubrary and Information Center
(DCLTC);
2. Shall recommend appropriate budget for the maintenance of the library for it to
be able to effectively implement its mandate;
3. Shall find ways and means in increasing the book and non-book collection of the
library and improving the facilities of the library;
4. Shall act as bridge and advocate between the library and community;
Chairperson
Vice-Chairperson
tl

Page 7 of B
Ord. No. 0816-21
5. Shall establish paftnership and linkages with educational institutions, public and
private organizations that suppoft library programs and seruices;
6. Shall do other functions that are necessary for the implementation of this
Ordinance.
SECTIOil 10. SfTE. - The establishment of the City Library and Information
Center shall be an integral paft of the development plan of the City Government of Davao
and its permanent site shall be at C. Bangoy Street., Barangay 34-D, Poblacion District,
this City.
SECTION 11. APPROPRIATIONS. - The amount necessary to carry out the
provisions of this Ordinance shall be included in the Annual City Budget and subsequent
Supplementary Budget of the year following its enacEnent into law.
SECTION 12. SUBMISSIOil OF REPORTS. - Within ninety (90) days from the
approva! of this Ordinance, and at the end of every calendar year thereafter, the Davao
City Librarian through the Local Library Board shall submit its progress repoft on the
implementation of this Ordinance, to the City Mayor.
SECTION 13. REPEALING CIAUSE. - All acts, presidential decrees, executive
orders and issuances inconsistent with this Ordinance are hereby repealed or amended
accordingly.
SECTION 14. SEPARABILITY CLAUSE. - If any provision of this Ordinance is
declared unconstitutional or inoperative, the other provisions not so declared shall remain
in force and effect.
SECTION 15. EFFECTMTY. -This Ordinance shalltake effect fifteen (15) days
after publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the City of Davao.
ENACTED, on the 2nd day of November 202L, by a unanimous vote of all the
Members of the Sanggunian, there being a quorum.
CERTIFIED CORRECT:
d#M,hfu*
Secretary to the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod
(City Government Depaffient Head II)
ATTESTED:
EDGAR P.
President
Temporary Presiding Officer
cns/$tq
s
I

--t
.14
APPROYED.
JAN 25 NN ,
Page 8 of I
Ord. No. ffi16-21
2021
f
ATTESTED:
City Marcr 7
O,r,o,n,,n,* ,/
N Dubn.Sara
""@m"m
z" DUTERTE
ryOirytrr
t
AN ORDINANCE MODERNIZII{G AT{D STRENGTHENING THE DAVAO CITY UBRARY AND
INFORI{ATION CENTER