Republic of th,e PhiliPPines
19th City Council
18h Regular Session
SERIES of 202L
PRESENT:
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Edgar P. Ibuyan Jr.
- Temporary Presiding Officer
Ralph O. Abella
Nilo D. Abellera
Maria Belen S. Acosta
Bai Hundra Cassandra Dominique N. Advincula
Wilbefto E. Al-ag
Dante L. Apostol Sr.
Conrado C. Baluran
Jessica M. Bonguyan
Louie John J. Bonguyan
Pilar C. Braga
Augusto Javier G. Campos III
Danilo C. Dayanghirang
Jonard C. Dayap
Edgar R. Ibuyan Sr.
Richlyn N. Justol-Baguilod
Pamela A. Librado-Morata
Diosdado Angelo Junior R. Mahipus
Jaffar U. Marohomsalic
Bonifacio E. Militar
Myrna G. L'Dalodo-Oftiz
Antoinette G. Principe-Castrodes
l. Melchor B. Quitain Jr.
Albefto T. Ungab
Mary Joselle D. Villafuefte
Jesus Joseph P. Zozobrado III
Vice Mayor Sebastian Z. Dutefte
- On Official Business
ORDINANCE NO. 0585.21
SERIES of 2O2l
AN ORDINANCE CREATING THE CITY WORKERS PROTECTION
AND DEVELOPMENT OFFICE OF DAVAO CITY UNDER THE OFFICE
oF THE CrTY MAYO& DEFTNTNG rTS FUNCTTONS AND
oBJECTTVES, ALLOCATTNG FUNDS THEREOF AND FOR OTHER
PURPOSES
ABSENT:

t
Ord. No. 0585-21
Be it ordained by the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod of Davao City in session assembled,
SECTION 1. TITLE. - This Ordinance shall be known as "AN ORDINANCE
CREATING THE CITY WORKERS PROTECTION AND DEVELOPMENT OFFICE OF
DAVAO CITY UNDER THE OFFICE OF THE CITY MAYO& DEFINTNG rTS
FUNCTTONS AND OBJECTMS, ALLOCATING FUNDS THEREOF AND FOR OTHER
PURPOSES".
SECTION 2. PURPOSE. - It is the purpose of this Ordinance to protect the rights
of the labor force and ensure the well being of all workers within its jurisdiction and
provide them with proper information of their rights and access to protection of their
welfare.
SECTION 3. COVERAGE. - This Ordinance shall apply to all workers, whether
residents of Davao City or not, and all employers whose place of business is found within
the territorial jurisdiction of the City of Davao. This shall also include workers assigned
outside the jurisdiction of Davao City but the main/head office is located in Davao City;
SECTION 4.
. - As used in this Ordinance, the terms
below shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this SECTION and as defined in the
Labor Code. Any words or terms not defined shall be given their plain and customary
meanings, unless the context requires otherwise, and shall be interpreted in a manner
consistent with the purpose and spirit of this Ordinance.
1. Worker - means any member of the labor force, whether employed or
unemployed.
2. Handicapped Workers - are those whose earning capacity is impaired by age
or physical or mental deficiency or injury.
3. Employee - includes any person in the employ of an employer. The term shall
not be limited to the employees of a pafticular employer, unless the Labor Code
so explicitly states. It shall include any individual whose work has ceased as a
result of or in connection with any current labor dispute or because of any unfair
labor practice if he has not obtained any other substantially equivalent and
regular employment. It refers to a person in the seruice of another under any
contract of hire, express or implied, oral or written, where the employer has the
power or right to control and direct the employee in the material details of how
the work is to be performed.
4. Overseas Filipino Workers - refers to any person who is a documented
worker and receiving compensation for such works outside of the Philippines
while in the seruice of an employer in a state of which he or she is not a legal
residenU to be used interchangeably with migrant workers or OFWs, as defined
under Republic Act No. 8042 or the Migrant Workers Act of 1995, as amended
by Republic Act No. 10022 or An Act Amending Republic Act. No. 8042, or any
other applicable laws for overseas workers, (taken from the OFW Families
Welfare and Crisis Center Ordinance of Davao City).
5. Solo Parent - any individua! who falls under any of the following categories:
(1) A woman who gives bifth as a result of rape and other crimes against
chastity even without a final conviction of the offender: Provided, that
the mother keeps and raises the child;
that:

Ord. No. 0585-21
(3) Parent left solo or alone with responsibility of parenthood while the
spouse is detained or is seruing sentence for a criminal conviction for at
least one (1) year;
(4) Parent left solo or alone with the responsibility of parenthood due to
physical and/or mental incapacity of spouse as ceftified by a public
medical practitioner;
(5) Parent left solo or alone with the responsibility of parenthood due to
legal separation or de fado separation from spouse for at least one (1)
year, as long as he/she is entrusted with the custody of the children;
(6) Parent left solo or alone with the responsibility of parenthood due
declaration of nullity of annulment of marriage as decreed by a couft or
by a church as long as he/she is entrusted with the custody of the
children;
(7) Parent left solo or alone with the responsibility of parenthood due to
abandonment of spouse for at least one (1) year;
(8) Unmarried mother/father who has preferred to keep and rear her/his
child/children instead of having others care for them or give them up to
a welfare institution;
(9) Any person who solely provides parental care and suppoft to a child or
children;
(10) Any family member who assumes the responsibility of head of family as
a result of the death, abandonment, disappearance or prolonged
absence of the parents or solo parent.
A change in the status of circumstance of the parent claiming benefits under this Act,
such that he/she is no longer left alone with the responsibility of parenthood, shall
terminate his/her eligibility for these benefits. ( Solo Parents'Welfare Act of 2000.')
6. Women in the enteftainment industry - as minimum wage earner, not
included in raid, to be rescued and not discriminated. Seats for women workers
- pregnant, separate toilet, breastfeeding workers (see Women's Development
Code of the City)
7. Senior citizen or elderly - refers to any resident citizen of the Philippines at
least sixty (60) years old (Expanded Senior Citizens Act of 2010).
B. Persons with Disability - are those who have long-term physical, mental,
intellectual or sensory impairments which in their interaction with various
barriers may hinder their full and effective pafticipation in society on an equal
basis with others.
9. Contractual employee - includes one employed by a contractor or
subcontractor to perform or complete a job, work or seruice, pursuant to an
arrangement between the latter and a principal.
(2) Parent left solo or alone with the responsibility of parenthood due to
the death of spouse.

Ord. No. 0585-21
10. Barangay Workers - these include Barangay officials and members who may
be designated by law or ordinance and charged with the maintenance of public
order, protection and security of life and property, or the maintenance of a
desirable and balanced environment of the Barangay.
ll.Employer - includes any person acting in the interest of an employer, directly
or indirectly. The term shall not include any labor organization or any of its
officers or agents except when acting as an employer. It also refers to a person
or organization that hires people to perform work in exchange for compensation,
which is usually money in the form of wages or salary. Most countries have
legislation governing relationships between employers and the people they hire,
setting out the rights and responsibilities of each.
12. Construction Workers - those who are employed in the construction industry
and its subdivisions, namely: general building construction, general engineering
construction, and special trade construction, based on the classification code of
the Philippine Accreditation Board of Construction Industry Authority of the
Philippines; to companies and entities involved in demolition works; and to those
falling within the construction industry as determined by the Secretary of Labor
and Employment.
13. BPO Workers - those who are employed in a central customer seruice where
agents or customer care specialists or customer seruice representatives handle
business-related telephone calls (or e-mail) and other IT-related activities on
behalf of a client.
14. Labor Organizations - means any union or association of employees which
exists in whole or in paft for the purpose of collective bargaining or of dealing
with employers concerning terms and conditions of employment.
15. Labor or Industrial Dispute - includes any controversy or matter concerning
terms or conditions of employment or the association or representation of
persons in negotiating the fixing, maintaining, changing or arranging of terms
and conditions of employment regardless of whether or not the disputants stand
in proximate relationship of employers and employees.
16. Regular Working Hours - the normal hours of work of any employee shall
not exceed eight (B) hours a day. It shall include all time during which an
employee is required to be on duty and/or to be at a prescribed workplace; all
time during which an employee is permitted to work; and rest periods of short
duration during working hours. (Labor Code Book III, Article 83 and recent
jurisprudence)
17.Oveftime Pay - refers to the additional compensation for work peformed
beyond eight (B) hours a day, which consists of an additional compensation
equivalent to his regular wage plus at least 25olo thereof.
Work performed beyond eight hours on a holiday or rest day shall be paid an
additional compensation equivalent to the rate of the first eight hours plus at
least 30o/o thereof.
18. Holiday Pay - refers to the payment of the regular daily wage for any
unworked regular holiday.

Ord. No. 0585-21
A. For Regular Holidays- the employee is entitled to at least 1000/o of his or
her minimum wage rate even if he/she did not repoft to work, provided
he/she is present or is on leave of absence with pay on the work day
immediately preceding the holiday. Worked performed on that day merits at
least twice (200olo) of the daily wage of the employee.
As used in this provision, "holiday" includes: New Year's Day, Maundy
Thursday, Good Friday, the ninth of April, the first of May, the twelfth of
June, the fourth of July, the thiftieth of November, the twenty-fifth and
thiftieth of December, and the day designated by law for holding a general
election.
B. For Special days - work performed on special days merits additional
compensation of at least thirty (30o/o) of the basic wage or a total of one
hundred thirly percent (130%). Where the employee works on a special day
falling on his rest day, he/she shall be entitled to an additional compensation
of at least fifty percent (50%) of his/her basic wage or a total of one hundred
fifty percent (150o/o). Note that workers who are not required or permitted
to work on special days are not entitled to any compensation.
Unless otherwise modified by law, order, or proclamation, the following are
the four (4) special days in a year under Executive Order No. 292, as
amended by Republic Act 9849, as fufther amended by Republic Act No.
109661, that shall be obserued in the Philippines: Ninoy Aquino Day, Monday
nearest August 21, All Saints Day November 1, Feast of the Immaculate
Conception of Mary December B, Last Day of the Year December 31.
19.Seruice Incentive Leave - Every employee who has rendered at least one
year of seruice shall be entitled to a yearly seruice incentive leave of five days
with pay.
20. Minimum Wage Earner - this refers to salaried individuals earning a
compensation of the daily minimum wage rates as determined by the Regional
Tripartite Wages and Productivity Board (RI/VPB).
SECTION 5.
OFFICE (WPDO) OF DAVAO CITY. - The Workers Protection and Development Office
(WPDO) of Davao City shall be created under the Office of the City Mayor to protect the
rights of the labor force and ensure the well-being of all workers within its jurisdiction
and provide them with proper information of their rights and access to protection of their
welfare. As such, a separate ordinance outlining the positions of the personnel under this
office will be drafted to ensure the full function of the WPDO.
SECTION 6. FUNCTIONS AND OBJECTIVES OF THE OFFICE. -The functions
of the Davao City Workers Protection & Development Office (WPDO) are as follows:
a. To initiate the organizing of Davao City Workers Council composed of:
i.
ii.
iii.
iv.
1 Representative from the Barangay;
1 Representative from Ununionized Sector;
1 Representative from Associations;
1 Representative from Labor Unions located in Davao City

Ord. No. 0585-21
b. To superuise the Barangay Employment Service Desk (BESD) of the City
and ensure its creation and submission of quarterly status repoft on
employment seruices and reports within their respective jurisdiction;
c. To produce educational and informational materials on the protection and
promotion of basic rights of workers;
Coordinate with DepEd, TESDA, Committee on Education for
information campaign, City Mayor's Office, PESO, DOLE and
NGOs
Coordinate with Labor Unions to assist in the information
dissemination
d. To recommend sustainable livelihood programs for unemployed/displaced
workers in coordination with DOLE, PESO and other government offices;
e. To conduct research and provide trainings on the enforcement of general
labor standards, occupational safety and health standards, social welfare
laws and other pertinent laws affecting the welfare of the workers;
f . To launch regular consultations with Davao City workers, employers, and
labor organizations based on the principles of shared responsibility to
promote understanding and industrial peace based on social justice;
g. To conduct research on enforcement of labor standards (which includes
pre-employment, human resources development, trainings, working
conditions, implementation of proper wage rates, health, safety and social
welfare benefits of workers), which shall include:
Implementation of labor standards (statutory benefits like SSS,
Philhealth, HDMF, and Social Security Benefits);
Inspection of workplace by DOLE (by DOLE Inspectors, Inseft
Visitorial Powers to do inspection of workplace and worker's
condition through Labor Leaders and Management/Deputized
Labor Inspectors);
iii.
Implementation of occupational safety for workers;
Implementation of Safe Spaces Act, Sexual Harassment in the
Workplace, Gender and Development Laws and Policies and new
laws in the workplace;
h. To enforce strict implementation of labor standards on employers and
companies and monitor the same'
i. To facilitate issues and concerns on labor relations (in coordination with
various government agencies in charge of labor dispute, labor
organizations, unions, unfair labor practices, CBAs and CNAs, strikes and
lock outs and post employment) as defined by existing and relevant laws
and statutes on labor and employment and coordinate with DOLE;
j. To lead in the organizing of the City's activities for the annual
commemoration of Labor Day every 1st day of May;
i.
i.
ii
iv
ii

Ord. No. 0585-21
k. To organize activities related to promotion of rights and welfare of women
workers, solo parent's workers, qualified differently abled persons, abled
workers with special needs and senior citizens and handicapped workers;
l. To coordinate with existing local government offices engaged in Gender and
Development (GAD), advocate and implement the same in all workplace;
a. To establish an official Hotline or Social Media Accounts of WPDO
and maintain an official contact number for BESD and publication
of directory which includes PESO, DOLE, WPDO and Barangay
BEDO, Labor Unions, Associations, Child Labor Focal Person, Task
Force Against Child Labor, GAD, etc.
m. To organize a network of volunteer lawyers and paralegal to assist and
provide free legal seruices for workers, to wit:
To assist in reaching an amicable settlement between the
pafties involved;
To prepare Drafting of Position Papers to be submitted to
the NLRC;
To provide free legal advice/assistance for and in behalf of
workers;
SECTION 7, CREATION OF BARANGAY EMPLOYMENT DESK OFFICE
(BEDO). Each barangay shall have a Barangay Employment Desk Office (BEDO) which
shall have the following functions:
b. To develop and maintain an up-to-date quantitative and qualitative
barangay-level inventory and registry of the city's labor resource
and employers within their jurisdiction which shall include:
Profile of workers and classification (child, OFW, Women
Workers, Senior Citizens, government employee, private
employees, contractual, job order employees, small and
medium employees, agency workers, etc.)
Percentage of employed, unemployed
Inventory of different employers within the barangaysmall, medium and large companies- employing workers;
c. To establish an official hotline for workers in the barangay level
and publication of directory for PESO, DOLE, WPDO and Barangay
BEDO, Labor Unions, Associations, Child Labor Focal Person, Task
Force Against Child Labor, GAD, etc.
d. To conduct physical and/or viftual job fairs in the barangay, preemployment seminar, and career employment coaching, in schools
in the barangay level in coordination with PESO, and DOLE laborrelated activities and programs in the barangay level, including
national agencies such as SSS, PHIC, NBI, Police Clearance, and
barangay office for employment requirements;
e. To refer legal labor concerns to the office of WPDO, Davao City
Task Force Against Child Labor, and proper authorities and offices;
i.
ii
iii.
i.
ii
ii
I

. P.ige 8 of 9
Ord. No. 0585-21
f. To initiate the organizing of independent barangay-level workers'
organizations within their respective jurisdiction;
g. To implement the Skills Registry System in the barangay level as
repository of information on the livelihood skills and available jobs
in a particular barangay;
h. To organize barangay and city-level lectures and seminars on the
basic rights of workers and coordinate with DepEd, TESDA,
Committee on Education for information campaign, City Mayor's
Office, PESO, DOLE, NGOs and Labor Unions to assist in the
information dissemination.
SECTION 8.
- The budget and
funding to defray the expenses necessary for the operational and administrative
requirements of the WPDO OF DAVAO CITY and expenses incidental to the
implementation of this Ordinance shall be sourced and charged to available funds as part
of the Special Programs of the City Mayor charged to the annual budget, which shall
include, but are not limited to:
a. Cost of Operating Expenses in the City, and all Barangay activities and
supplies in implementing Worker's Protection and creation of BEDO.
b. Cost of printing of training, information and communication materials.
c. Cost of conduct of research and consultations with other agencies, local
and international non-government organizations and labor organizations.
d. Cost of enforcement of the purpose of WPDO in the barangay level
including allowances for meals and transportation expenses that may be
incidental thereto.
e. Salaries and allowances of WPDD staff, lawyers, paralegal and consultants.
f. Other expenses associated with the implementation and enforcement of
this Ordinance.
sEcTIoN9.rc.-Allordinancescontrarytoorinconsistent
with this Ordinance are hereby repealed or modified accordingly.
SECTION 10. SEPARABILITY CLAUSE. - If any paft or provision of this
Ordinance is declared unconstitutional or invalid, the same shall not affect the validity
and effectivity of the other pafts of the provisions hereof.
SECTION 11. EFFECTMW - This Ordinance shall take effect immediately upon
approval.
ENACTED, May tt, 202L, by a unanimous vote of all the Members of the
Sanggunian present, there being a quorum.
CERTIFIED CORRECT:
ulffiot.-#r,
Secretary to the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod
(City Government Depaftment Head II)n

President
Temporary Presiding Officer
cns/ray
Pagi: 9 of 9
Ord. No. 0585-21
sl1
I
a
I
ATTESTED:
APPROVED . AUG 0g 202{
DUTERTE
202L
Gs Cibl r^tp
ATTESTED:
LE
City Admini
AN ORDINANCE CREANNG THE CITY WORKERS PROTECTION AND DEVELOPMENT OFFICE OF DAVAO
CITY UNDER THE OFFICE OF THE CITY MAYOR, DEFINING ITS FUNCTIONS AND OBJECTIVES,
ALLOCATING FUNDS THEREOF AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES