Republii of tnb Philippines
\
Office of the SANGGUNIANG Panlung3od
19th City Council
38th Regular Session
SERIES of 202L
PRESENT:
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Albefto T. Ungab
- Temporary Presiding Officer
Ralph O. Abella
Maria Belen S. Acosta
Bai Hundra Cassandra Dominique N. Advincula
Wilbefto E. Al-ag
Dante L. Apostol Sr.
Conrado C. Baluran
Jessica M. Bonguyan
Louie John J. Bonguyan
Pilar C. Braga
Augusto Javier G. Campos III
Jonard C. Dayap
Edgar P. Ibuyan Jr.
Edgar R. Ibuyan Sr.
Diosdado Angelo Junior R. Mahipus
Jaffar U. Marohomsalic
Bonifacio E. Militar
Myrna G. L'Dalodo-Ortiz
Antoinette G. Principe-Castrodes
l. Melchor B. Quitain Jr.
Mary Joselle D. Villafuefte
Jesus Joseph P. Zozobrado III
ABSENT:
Vice Mayor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Sebastian Z. Dutefte
Nilo D. Abellera
Danilo C.Dayanghirang
Richlyn N. Justol-Baguilod
Pamela A. Librado-Morata
- OB- Acting City Mayor
- On Sick Leave
- On Sick Leave
- On Maternity Leave
- On Domestic Emergency Leave
ORDINANCE NO. O736.2L
SERIES of 2O2!
AN ORDINANCE PROVIDING FOR THE GUIDELINES ON THE SOCIAL
DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS FOR THE PUBLIC UTILIW VEHICLE
MODERNIZATION PROJECTS OF DAVAO CITY

Ord. No. 0736-2t
Be it ordained by the Honorable SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod of Davao City, in session
assembled, that:
SECTION 1. TITLE. This Ordinance shall be known as "AN ORDINANCE PROVIDING
FORTHE GUIDELINES ON THE SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS FORTHE PUBLIC UTILITY
VEHICLE MODERNIZATION PROJECTS OF DAVAO CITY'.
SECTION 2. DECLARATION OF POUCY. In the discharge of its function to deliver
efficient and effective provision of basic seruices and facilities, the City shall provide an
adequate and modern transportation to its people.
To improve the quality of life of the residents in relation to the city's promotion of its
"Life is Here." campaign, it is the declared policy of the City of Davao to modernize, establish
and maintain a safe, reliable, and efficient public transport system through the
implementation of the PUV Modernization Projects.
The City shall promote and improve the social and economic well-being of its people
who will be affected in the implementation of this government project. It shall develop skills
and capabilities to make them more responsive to their needs and become self-reliant.
The City shall endeavor to provide those affected persons with appropriate
compensation, equitable opportunities to continue to be paft of the transpoftation sector or
effectively transition to new forms of livelihood.
SECTION 3. DEFINITION OF TERMS - As used in this Ordinance, the following
terms are defined as follows:
a. Allied Workers refer to any person legitimately working within the
transpoftation sector who provides a range of technical or suppoft seruices therein,
such as, but not limited to; transpoft cooperative office workers, garage keepers, and
other similar transportation sector workers. For purposes of coverage of this
Ordinance, the City Government of Davao, together with other government agencies,
shall adopt appropriate guidelines in classifying Allied Workers who may be qualified
to any of the Social Development Programs for the Public Utility Vehicle Modernization
Projects of Davao City.
b. Applicant Beneficiaries - refer to eligible members of the main applicant's
household. The main applicant must either be the (a) Operator; b) Operator/Driver;
(c) Driver or (d) Allied Worker.
c. Blacklisting - refers to the process by which the LTO disallows the registration
and consequent use of unsuitable engines and chassis.
d. CSWDO - refers to the City Social Welfare and Development Office.
e. CTTMO - refers to the City Transpoft and Traffic Management Office.
f. DOTr - refers to the Depaftment of Transpoftation.
g. Driver - refers to the person driving a public utility vehicle for economic purpose,
as an employee, by lease or any arrangement.
h. Dropping of Unit - refers to the process by which the Land Transpoftation
Franchising and Regulatory Board (LTFRB) cancels the permit of an old PUV unit.

Ord. No. 0736-2L
i. HPBS - refers to the High Priority Bus System.
j. Interim Scrapping Facility - refers to existing facilities accredited by the DOTr
that shall function as scrapping facilities with the capacity to dismantle old PUVs.
k. LTFRB - refers to the Land Transportation Franchising and Regulatory Board.
l. LTO - refers to Land Transportation Office.
m. Old PUV units - refer to PUV units which already reached the mandatory age
limit as prescribed by existing DOTr and LTFRB issuances, or PUV units which did not
pass the road worthiness test.
n. Operator - refers to the owner of a Public Utility Vehicle (PUV) operating within
Davao City under an approved and active franchise issued by the LTFRB, including
those that are covered under provisional authority.
o. Operator-Driver - refers to the owner of a PUV operating within Davao City
under approved and active franchise issued by the LTFRB or any appropriate
government entity, including those under provisional authority, who at the same tine
is driving his/her PUV.
p. Public Utility Vehicle (PUV) - refers to vehicles that carry passengers, offering
seruices to the public for a fee, and with valid franchise permit issued by the LTFRB.
For purposes of this Ordinance, PUVs are limited only to Public Utility Jeepneys
(PUJs), vans and buses with public transpoft routes within Davao City. Provided
fufther, that similar vehicles seruicing the Panabo-Davao City and vice-versa route
may be included. Provided finally that, taxis and similar public conveyances are
excluded. In addition, and as far as practicable, motorized and non-motorized
tricycles, and similar public conveyances may also be included.
q. Regional Secretariat - refers to the committee by the DOTr which is composed
of representatives from Region XI Land Transpoftation Franchising and Regulatory
Board (LTFRB), the Land Transportation Office (LTO), the Depaftment of Trade and
Industry (DTI) and the Depaftment of Environment and Natural Resources (DENR)
which oversee the accreditation of interim scrapping facilities, facilitate cancellation
of permits, and blacklisting of old PUV units for scrapping.
r. Scrapping Ceftificate - refers to the document issued by the Scrapping Facility
to the operator stating that the old PUV unit/s was/were already disposed of.
s. Scrapping Program - refers to the program under this Ordinance whereby an
old PUV unit is discarded, removed from seruice, dismantled or scrapped.
t. Social Development Program - refers to the government assistance, financial
or othenruise, to be provided to the operators, drivers and allied workers and/or their
families who will be affected by the implementation of the PUV Modernization Projects
in the City.
SECTION 4. COVERAGE - The Ordinance shall apply to all operators, operatordrivers, drivers, allied workers and/or their families who are engaged in legitimate local public
transportation seruice and who will be affected by the implementation of the PUV
Modernization Projects, and subject to eligibility requirements set fofth under this Ordinance
or as maybe determined by the Social Development Committee herein created.

Ord. No. 0736-2L
ARTICLE II
Social Preparation
SECTION 5. SOCIAL PREPARATION - In addition to the provision of this
Ordinance, the modernization and scrappage programs of PUVs in the City of Davao shall be
covered by appropriate orders issued by DOTr, LTFRB and other government agencies. DOTr
and/or the LTFRB shall issue appropriate orders officially commencing the modernization and
scrappage programs of all PUVs in the City. Accordingly, affected persons of the programs,
who desire to avail of any assistance under the social development programs of this
Ordinance, must pafticipate in the social preparation activities and must register with the
CSWDO.
For this purpose, the City Government of Davao, together with other agencies, shall
provide comprehensive activities designed to help the people who will be affected socially
and economically in the implementation of the PUV Modernization Projects in the City.
SECTION 6. ACTIVITIES TO BE PARTICIPATED PRIOR TO AVAILING THE
PROGRAMS-The operator, operator-driver, driver, and allied workers must pafticipate prior
to availing of any assistance under this Ordinance on the following social preparation activities
conducted by the Social Development Committee, to wit:
I.
Social Preparation Activities
a) Consultation Dialogue;
b) Gender Sensitivity Training; and
c) Life Skills Development, such as:
i.
Financial Literacy/Entrepreneurial Mind-Setting;and,
ii.
Personality Development
II.
Employment Facilitation and Advisory Services
a) Career Counselling
b) lob Matching and Placement/Skills Mapping
SECTION 7. RELEVANT PERIOD FOR ELIGIBILTTY AND TIMELINE FOR THE
PROVISION OF ASSISTANCE - To avail the assistance under the social development
programs of this Ordinance, persons affected by the implementation of any PUV
modernization projects must submit an official application on or before the deadlines that the
Social Development Committee may identify. In no case however, shall an application for
eligibility be made or allowed later than January l, 2023 or the year beginning the full
operation of the HPBS. The applicant must have provided a minimum of continuous six (6)
months of seruice to the PUV sector to which he/she may belong prior to the submission of
his/her application to be eligible for assistance.
Once the PUV Modernization Projects application is granted, assistance agreements will
be provided to the applicant. These agreements will outline financial assistance, non-financial
assistance and/or scrapping program details to be provided to the applicant and its relevant
beneficiary/ies. Upon receipt of the agreements, the applicant must register his/her
acceptance of the agreements with the CSWDO within thity (30) days.
As per Article V of this Ordinance, an applicant will have 30 days to submit any grievance
related to the PUV Modernization Projects assistance agreements. Grievances related to the
agreement received beyond thirty (30) days will no longer be accepted.

Ord. No. 0736-21
An applicant can register to receive non-financial assistance and remain providing
. seruice as an operator, operator-driver, driver and allied worker at no penalty.
To receive financial assistance, the operator, operator-driver, driver and allied worker
must demonstrate a minimum of six (6) months continuous service as provided in SECTION 8,
Afticle III of this Ordinance.
Any affected person can only submit one application to avail of any social development
program under this Ordinance.
ARTICLE III
Social Development Assistance
sEcTIoN8.-Financialassistanceshallbegiven
resulting from the implementation of the PUV Modernization Projects in the City.
a) Operator An amount of not less than One Hundred Thousand Pesos
(P100,000.00) shall be given to the operator for every covered PUV, provided that,
it is in good running condition and used as a PUV for at least six (6) months
reckoned from the date of disenfranchisement of the affected PUV. Each PUV must
be covered by a valid and existing Ceftificate of Public Convenience as ceftified by
the LTFRB. Operators availing of this assistance shall pafticipate in the scrapping
program under Afticle IV of this Ordinance.
b) Operator-Driver - An amount of not less than One Hundred Eighty Thousand
Pesos (P180,000.00) shall be given to an operator-driver, provided that the PUV
he/she operates and drives is in good running condition and continuously operated
as such by him/her for the preceding six (6) months reckoned from the date of
disenfranchisement of the affected PUV. Operator-drivers availing of this assistance
shall participate in the scrapping program under Afticle IV of this Ordinance.
c) Driver - An amount of not less than Eighty Thousand Pesos (P80,000.00) shall
be given to the driver, provided that, he/she has been driving the PUV for at least
six (6) months reckoned from the date of disenfranchisement of the affected PUV,
provided fufther that, he/she must be included in the record of the CTTMO as a
PUV driver or as certified by appropriate government agencies. Should there be
more than one (1) driver for one PUV, the financial assistance shall be divided
among them proportionately.
d) Allied Workers or any person, other than those enumerated above, but who are
found to be directly or indirectly affected by the implementation of the PUV
Modernization Projects, shall be given appropriate assistance or social development
programs upon determination and approval of the Social Development Committee.
In order to avail of any government assistance or social development programs, the
operator, operator-driver, driver, or allied worker must comply accordingly with the
documentary requirements set forth in this Ordinance or as may be fufther required by
appropriate government authority. The determination and approval of an application for
financial assistance under this SECTION shall be subject to the determination and approval of
the Social Development Committee.

Ord. No. 0736-2L
SECTION 9. DOCUMENTARY REOUIREMENTS FOR THE GRANT OF
FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE UNDER THIS ORDINANCE. The following requirements must
be submitted to the Social Development Committee to avail of the financial assistance under
this Ordinance:
I.
For Operators and Operator-drivers:
a) PUV Modernization Projects Application Form;
b) Certificate of Public Convenience;
c) If the applicant is not the franchise holder, he or she shall submit proof of
ownership such as Deed of Sale, Deed of Donation or any related document;
d) Sworn list of driver/s;
e) Clearance duly issued by the LTFRB;
0 Certificate of Roadworthiness issued by LTO or Ceftificate of Scrappage
issued by the local accredited interim scrapping facility;
g) Certificate of Attendance to Trainings duly issued by the CSWDO; and
h) For operator-drivers, a valid driver's license and Ceftificate of Eligibility
issued by CTTMO, or by an appropriate government agency, shall also be
required.
II.
For Drivers:
a) PUV Modernization Projects Application Form;
b) Valid driver's license;
c) Certiflcate of Eligibility issued by the CTTMO, or by an appropriate
government agency.
III.
For Allied Workers:
a) PUV Modernization Projects Application Form;
b) Proofs of employment to a transpoftation company; and
c) Any appropriate additional documents that the Social Development
Committee may require.
N.
For the chosen relative up the 4th civil degree by consanguinity or affinity:
a) PUV Modernization Projects Application Form; and
b) Proof of family relationship, such as a Ceftificate of Birth or a Certificate of
Marriage, or other related documents.
SECTION 10. NON-FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE. Subject to applicable rules and
regulations, the operator, operator-driver, driver, allied worker or any of their chosen relative
up to the 4th civil degree by consanguinity or affinity, may apply for a non-financial assistance
under this Ordinance. The non-financial assistance shall include, but not limited to, the
following: educational, employment and/or enterprise assistance.
SECTION 11. DOCUMENTARY REOUIREMENTS FOR NON-FINANCIAL
ASSISTANCE. For purposes of availing the non-financial and in addition to the PUV
Modernization Application Form, the specific documentary requirements set forth by each of
the government agencies extending such assistance must be submitted. The requirements
are the following:

Ord. No. 0736-2t
I.
Commission on Higher Education (CHED) Tulong Dunong Program:
a) Duly accomplished CHED - Tulong Dunong Program Application Form;
b) Proof of Enrollment;
c) Ceftificate of Indigency from the CSWDO;
d) Certifled True Copy of Birth Certificate or Marriage Ceftificate, if married;
e) Photocopy of School ID.
Department of Trade and Industry-Displaced Drivers Operators Livelihood
Restoration Program
a) High Priority Bus System Social Development Package Application Form
b) Form 1: DTl-Assisted MSMEs - Proflle
c) Attendance that the beneficiary has attended the Basic Business
Management Training
d) Ceftificate of Completion.
III
Department of Labor and Employment -Tulong Panghanapbuhay sa Ating
Displaced/Disadvantaged Workers (TUPAD) Program
a) High Priority Bus System Social Development Package Application Form
b) Daily Time Record
c) Intake Sheet
d) Accomplishment Repoft
e) Barangay Certificate indicating that he or she is underemployed/unemployed
0 Personal Data Sheet
g) Government-issued ID
N.
TESDA Scholarship
a) Duly accomplished Application Form or TESDA Learner's Form;
b) Properly and completely filled-out Self-Assessment Guide of chosen
qualification;
c) Three (3) pieces of colored and passpoft size picture, with white
background, with collar and with name printed at the back.
Note: Requirements may vary based on the implementing TESDA Training
Institution and the preferred course of the beneficiary.
For purposes of this Ordinance, any assistance that may be offered in the future
by the government agencies above-mentioned shall be considered as social development
assistance for the displaced PUV operators, operator-drivers, drivers, and allied workers.
Fufther, any assistance offered by other government agencies may be included in the
preceding list and shall be included in the social development programs of this Ordinance,
upon determination and approval of the Social Development Committee.
SECTION 12. DUTY OF THE OPERATOR. - The operator must inform the Social
Development Committee of any change/s in the list of drivers and allied workers he/she has
submitted. Non-compliance with this SECTION may be a ground for the disqualification of the
operator, drivers and allied workers from availing or receiving any of the assistance under
this Ordinance.
II

Page B of 11
Ord. No. 0736-21
SECTION 13. - PUBLICATION. Tc promote transparency, the list of the qualifled
beneficiaries shall be posted in City Hall, LTFRB, CTTMO or any two conspicuous places for a
period of fifteen (15) days. The implementation of the social development programs shall be
announced on the radio, TV program and official Facebook of social media accounts of the
City Government of Davao, LTFRB Region XI or the Davao City HPBS.
ARTICLE IV
Scrapping Program
SECTION 14. ENFORCEMENT OF SCRAPPING PROGRAM - The enforcement
and implementation of scrappage and dismantling of PUV units shal! be undertaken in any
local accredited interim scrapping facility as may be established under LTO and LTFRB Joint
Memorandum Circular No. 001, SERIES of 202L. However, prior to the scrapping of old PUV
vehicles, the unit must be dropped, cancelled, and blacklisted.
SECTION 15. PROCEDURES PRIOR TO SCRAPPING OF OLD PUV UNITS. -
To properly effect the scrapping of old PUV units, the following measures must first be
followed:
a) It is required that the old unit must be officially dropped from public seruice.
b) The operator of Cooperative/Corporation must, therefore, file a Petition for
Dropping of Unit and surrender the "for hire" plates with the LTFRB Regional
Office XI.
c) Upon approval of the petition, the operator, corporation or cooperative shall furnish
LTO Regional Office XI a copy of the Order of Dropping, together with the Letter
of Intent, which includes the list of units for the immediate scrapping. The said list
for immediate scrapping shall include the chassis and engine number of the vehicles
and the name of the chosen interim scrapping facility as furnished by LTFRB XI.
Fufther, the Original Certiflcate of Registration shall be surrendered to the LTO.
SECTION 16. Upon completion of the dismantling/scrapping process, the scrapping
facility shall issue a Ceftificate of Scrapping to the operator or cooperative/corporation. Such
ceftificate shall be submitted to the Social Development Committee. A copy shall likewise be
provided to LTFRB Region XI.
SECTION 17. The operator, cooperative, or corporation of the scrapped units shall
be paid of the appraised value of the scrapped unit by the accredited scrapping facility.
SECTION 18. In the event that the operator, including those who do not want to
avail of any of the social development programs under this Ordinance and/or refuses to scrap
an old PUV unit, but instead opt to reclassify and use the said unit as a private vehicle, the
unit will be subjected to a roadworthiness test through the accredited Motor Vehicle
Inspection Centers (MVIC). Units that will not pass the MVIC test will not be allowed to be
reclassifled as a private vehicle and henceforth, be required to be scrapped, with its chassis
and engine number blacklisted from the Land Transportation Office database pursuant to
LTO-LTFRB Joint Memorandum Circular No. 001, SERIES of 2021.
ARTICLE V
Complaints and Grievances
SECTION 19. COMPLAINTS - Any person may question the qualification of the
beneficiary within thity (30) days after the publication of the list of qualified beneflciaries to
the Grievance Committee who has exclusive authority to hear and resolve all complaints.

Page 9 ofll
Ord. No. 0736-2l
SECTION 20. GRIEVANCE COMMITTEE - There shall be created a grievance
committee tasked to hear, settle and decide issues peftaining to the eligibility of an applicant
for any of the assistance provided herein or any other issues relating to the implementation
of this Ordinance.
The Grievance Committee shall be composed of the following offices to be
represented by its department head or highest-ranking officer or their duly authorized
representatives, to wit:
a) City Legal Office - Chairperson
b) CSWDO - Member; and,
c) CTTMO - Member
SECTION 21. PROCEDURE - The Grievance Committee shall formulate its own
rules of procedure to insure speedy disposition of complaints.
SECTION 22. RESOLUTION - All complaints shall be resolved within sixty (60) days
from the filing thereof, provided that, in no case shall the pendenry of such resolution delay
the implementation of the PUV Modernization Projects in the City of Davao.
prescription, oi*Xlffit":J:" and Foreiture
SECTION 23. PRESCRIPTION - To avail of the financial assistance under this
Ordinance, the application must be submitted to the Social Development Committee within
six (6) months reckoned from the date of disenfranchisement of the affected PUV, pursuant
to the approved schedule of the implementation plans of the PUV Modernization Projects in
the City.
Applicants for non-financial assistance under this Ordinance must submit their
application on or before the specific dates to be set by the Social Development Committee.
Failure to submit an application for any of the assistance package within the
aforesaid periods shall constitute as waiver to avail of any and all assistance provided or
pursuant to the PUV Modernization Projects in Davao City.
SECTION 24.
- Any wilful and untruthful
statement, concealment, or falsification made by the applicant PUV operator, operator-driver,
driver or allied worker is a ground for disqualification and forfeiture to avail of any social
development programs under this Ordinance.
ARTICLE VII
Social Development Committee
SECTION 25. CREATION OF SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE -There is
hereby created a Social Development Committee composed of the following offices to be
represented by its depaftment head or highest-ranking officer or their duly authorized
representatives:

Page 10 of11
Ord. No. 0736-2l
Chairperson
City Mayor or her duly authorized
representative
Vice-Chairperson
City Socia! Welfare and Development Office
Members
Presidential Commission for the Urban Poor
CiW Legal Office
City Transport and Traffic Management
Office
Depaft ment of Tra nspoftation
Land Transpoftation Franchising and
Requlatory Board -XI
Land Transportation Office XI
SP Committee on Social Seruices
SP Committee on Transportation and
Communications
SECTION 26. POWERS AND FUNCTIONS -The Social Development Committee
shall perform the following functions:
a) To formulate policies and measures that are appropriate for the immediate
release of the assistance;
b) To formulate policies and measures that are necessary to effectively resolve any
issue involving the implementation of this Ordinance;
c) To accept, review and evaluate the application to avail of the programs under this
Ordinance;
d) To act on the resolutions made by the Grievance Committee brought before it on
issues involving the eligibility of the applicant and on issues peftaining to the
implementation of this Ordinance;
e) To facilitate the conduct of social preparation, training, interuention or assistance
to persons directly affected by the implementation of the PUV Modernization
Projects in the City; and,
D To exercise such other powers and functions as may be necessary or incidental to
attain the objectives of this Ordinance.
ARTICLE VIII
Final Provisions
SECTION 27. FUNDING - The amount necessary to carry out the provisions of this
Ordinance shall be charged from appropriations specific for the purpose of from any
government funds available, subject to government accounting and auditing laws, rules and
regulations.
SECTION 28. RULES AND REGULATIONS - The Social Development Committee
shall promulgate rules and regulations for the effective implementation of this Ordinance.
Such rules and regulations shall take effect within fifteen (15) days upon approval of the City
Mayor.
SECTION 29. SEPARABILIW CLAUSE - If, any provision of this Ordinance is
declared invalid or unconstitutional, the remaining provisions not affected thereby shall
continue in full force and effect.

t\
Ord. No. 0736-21
SECTION 30. EFFECTMTY - This Ordinance shall take effect within fifteen (15)
days after completion of its publication in a newspaper of general circulation for at least two
(2) weeks in the City of Davao.
ENACTED, on the 5th day of October 2021, by a unanimous vote of all the Members
of the Sanggunian, there being a quorum.
CERTIFIED CORRECT:
ATTESTED:
ATTESTED:
. UNGAB
Acting Vice Mayor
Temporary Presiding Officer
cns/ray
cAtWW"!thk6,
Secretary to the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod
(City Government Department Head IU^_
NoI/ I I 2021
APPROVED
202L
z.
,city Mayp
T
City Adm
,
AN ORDINANCE PROVIDING FOR THE GUIDELINES ON THE SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS FOR THE
PUBLIC UTILITY VEHICLE MODERNIZATION PROJECTS OF DAVAO CITY
ATTY.