t,
'
,
Republic of thd Rhilippines
19th City Council
8th Regular Session
SERIES of 2021
PRESENT:
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
ABSENT
Vice Mayor
Councilor
Edgar P. Ibuyan Jr.
Ralph O. Abella
Maria Belen S. Acosta
Bai Hundra Cassandra Dominique N. Advincula
Wilbefto'E. Al-ag
Dante L. Apostol Sr.
Conrado C. Baluran
Jessica M. Bonguyan
Louie John J. Bonguyan
Pilar C. Braga
Augusto Javier G. Campos III
Danilo C. Dayanghirang
Jonard C. Dayap
Edgar R. Ibuyan Sr.
Richlyn N. Justol-Baguilod
Pamela A. Librado-Morata
Diosdado Angelo Junior R. Mahipus
Jaffar U. Marohomsalic
Bonifacio E. Militar
Myrna G. L'Dalodo-Ortiz
Antoinette G. Principe-Castrodes
J. Melchor B. Quitain Jr.
Albefto T. Ungab
Mary Joselle D. Villafuerte
Jesus Joseph p. Zozobrado III
Sebastian Z. Duterte
Nilo D. Abellera
- Temporary Presiding Officer
- On Official Business
- On Domestic Emergency Leave
ORDTNANCE NO. 0495.21
SERIES ol2O2t
AN ORDINANCE MANDATTNG THE INSTALLATION OF
INDOOR VENTILATION SYSTEM AND IMPOSING GOO;
INDOOR AIR HEALTH PRACTICES ON ALL rSrNiiiSrrMENiS
TN THE CITY TO MTTIGATE COVID-lg TRANSMISSION

that:
it ordained by the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod of Davao city in session assembled,
SECTION 1' TITLE - This ordinance shall be known as "THE vENTilATIoN
ORDINANCE OF 2O2I'.
SECTION 2.
of the State to utilize the police power ofthe Local
Page2 of 4
Ord. No. 0495-ZL
It is hereby declared to be the policy
and safety of its constituents during this time of COVID-19 pandemic.
Government Unit to ensure the health
Toward this end, a good air quality exchange in indoor environments through
sufficient ventilation shall be maintaineo tb preveniu..rrrlation and concentration of
viral load' A safer and healthier indoor environment for peopte Corro be attained by
mandating the installation of air ventilation systems if current air ventilation setup is
deemed insufficient u.pon inspection by proper'auinoritierir *.riir ti-.,. imposition and
obseruance of air exchange practices in ill estabtishments in oavao c*ft'fJffijiig;i;
COVID-19 transmission.
)
SECTION 3. DEFINITION OF TERMS.
1' Indoor ventilation System - refers to the layout and design of a building, as
well as occupancy and tvpe of heating, ventitation, and iir.iinoiiiilil (iiilAc)
system which, taken as a whole, can impact potential airborne spread of the
virus.
2' Optimum Ventilation - refers to the important component of the over-all
strategy to mitigate covlD transmission which includes the increase of
ventilation with outdoor air and air filtration system.
3' Cross ventilation - refers to the infusion of outdoor air to indoor environments
which can be attained by opening windows and otner tpenings in an
establishment.
SECTION 4' SCOPE,AND C9VERAGE - This Ordinance seeks to regulate two
components concerning ventilation: (1) structure and (2) practice.
This ordinance shall apply to all public and private establishments in Davao city.
Residential buildings are also encouraged to enhance the ventilation of their homes.
SECTION 5' STRUCTURE - The following measures as to structure must be
followed:
1' Establishments with windows which are designed in a way which they could not
be opened should be replaced.
2. Establishments without any windows at all should construct one.
However, those establishments with adiflcial ventilation, ventilation skylight, and
vent shaft shall be exempt from the above after it has been inspected and found sufficient
for good air exchange by the following authorities: the city'Building om.. for private
buildings, the City Engineer's office for government buildings ano itre Department of
Public Works and Highways (DpWH).

Page 3'of 4
Ord. No. 0495-2L
SECTION 6. HEALTHY AIR EXCHANGE PRACTICES. To ensure healthy air
exchange in all establishments, opening of doors and windows is required at least 15
minutes per hour which shall mean establishments can have the option to close doors
and windows while relying on air vents for 45 minutes per hour.
This SECTION shall not apply to exempted establishments as provided in the
preceding SECTION.
SECTION 7. COMPLIANCE SIGNAGE. Each establishment shall be required to
put in their entrances a uniform placard designed by the City providing the following
information:
1. The establishment's overall Healthy Air Exchange Plan which would depend as
to the kind of ventilation system of the establishment;
2. That the establishment has complied with the structure as mandated by the
Ventilation Ordinance signed by an authorized personnel of the Office of the
City Building Official;
3. The schedule of opening doors and windows for obseruance and monitoring
purposes;
4. A statement that any person may repoft an establishmentt non compliance to
the ventilation ordinance to contact details supplied by the appropriate City
Officials.
SECTION 8.
be the lead agency
On the other hand,
the implementation
The Office of the City Building Official shall
in the implementation of this Ordinance with respect to the structure.
the City Planning and Development Office shall be the lead agenry in
of this Ordinance with respect to the practices.
SECTION 9. PENALTY.
1. For the first offense, the person or establishment shall be issued a written
warning with a notation that the violator will be given a period of 15 WORKING
DAYS to do some changes.
2. For the second offense, the person or establishment who violates this
Ordinance shall be fined with 5,000 pesos;
3. For the third offense, the business permit of the establishment shall be revoked.
SECTION 10.
allocate funds for the
SECTION 11.
provision of this Ordi
provisions hereof not
effect.
implementation of thi
The Local Government of Davao City shall
s Ordinance.
- If, for any reason, any SECTION or
nance is declared unconsti tutional or invalid, other sections or
affected by such declaration shall continue to be in full force and
SECTION 12. EFFECTIVITY. This Ordinance shall take effect immediately upon
approval. Establishments are given a period of 30 days to adjust and comply. Aftenruaids,
the penalty clause shall be implemented.
ENACTED, February 23, 2021, by a unanimous vote of all the Members of the
Sanggunian present, there being a quorum.

L-
-_.:1,
l,
Ord. No. 0495-21
CERTI.FIED CORRECT:
ATTiE$TED,:
ATI+STeOt
inistrator'=
i'
il
il
it
I
I
l
,l
I
I
,l
ril
il
'l
til
llI
An Ordinance Mandating the Installation of Indsor Ventilation System and Imposing Good Indoor Air
Health Practices on All Establishments in the City to mitigate Covid-tg Transmission -