Republic of tne Philippines
Ctty of Davao
19th City Council
24h Regular Session
SERIES of 2022
PRESENT:
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Edgar P. Ibuyan Jr.
- Temporary Presiding Officer
Ralph O. Abella
Nilo D. Abellera
Luna Maria Dominique N. Advincula
Bai Hundra Gssandra Dominique N. Advincula
Wilbefto E. Al-ag
Dante L. Apostol Sr.
Conrado C. Baluran
Jessica M. Bonguyan
Louie lohn J. Bonguyan
Pilar C. Braga
Augusto Javier G. Campos III
Danilo C. Dayanghirang
Jonard C. Dayap
Edgar R. Ibuyan Sr.
Richlyn N. Justol-Baguilod
Pamela A. Librado-Morata
Diosdado Angelo Junior R. Mahipus
Rodolfo M. Mande
Jaffar U. Marohomsalic
Myrna G. L'Dalodo-Ortiz
Antoinette G. Principe-Castrodes
J. Melchor B. Quitain Jr.
Alberto T. Ungab
Mary Joselle D. Villafuefte
Jesus Joseph P. Zozobrado III
ABSENT:
Vice Mayor Sebastian Z. Duterte
Councilor Bonifacio E. Militar
- OB- Acting City Mayor
- On Sick Leave
oRDrl{ANCE NO. 0998-22
SERIES of 2022
AN ORDINANCE INSTITUTIONALIZING THE DAVAO
CITY ENHANCED COMPREHENSIVE LOCAL
TNTEGRATTON PROGRAM (E-CrrP) FOR FORMER
REBELS OR FORMER VIOLEilT EXTREMISTS IN DAVAO
CITY AND OTHER PERTINENT PROGRAMS AND
SERVICES AS PROVIDED BY THE HALFWAY HOUSE
KATINAW VILLAGE

Page 2 of 2l
Ord. No.0998-22
Be it ordained by the Honorable SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod of Davao City, in session
assembled, that:
CHAPTER I
SECTION 1. TITLE - This Ordinance shall be known as the *ORDINANCE
INSTITUTIONALIZING THE DAVAO CITY ENHANCED COMPREHENSIVE LOCAL
INTEGRATION PROGRAM (E-CLIP) FOR FORMER REBETS (FRs) AND FORMER
VIOLENT EXTREMISTS (FvEs) IN DAVAO CITY AND OTHER PERTINENT
PROGRAMS AND SERVICES AS PROVIDED BY THE HALFWAY HOUSE KALINAW
VILLAGE (KALINAW VILIAGE, FOR BRErrrrY)".
SECTION 2.
- Local Government Units (LGUs) are
empowered with the promotion and maintenance of peace and order and the preseruation
of public safety. Specifically, SECTION L7 (B) (3) (v) of the Local Government Code of 1991
mandates LGUs to provide basic seruices and facilities for FRs and FVEs, which include
programs and projects, and population development seruices of FRs and FVEs;
To further accelerate the sound development of Davao City in accordance with
Davao City peace building programs and projects, this Ordinance shall pafticularly govern
the Davao City Enhanced Comprehensive Local Integration Program (E-CLIP) for FRs and
FVEs in Davao City and other pertinent programs and seruices as provided by the Kalinaw
Village.
SECTION 3. PURPOSES - Specifically, this Ordinance aims to:
a. Provide comprehensive guidelines and clear process in the implementation of
E-CLIP in Davao City. Also, to stipulate the Kalinaw Village Operations Manual
as the halfiruay house, being managed and maintained by the City Government,
which serves as a venue for various interventions needed to be undeftaken by
FRs and FVEs in preparation for their mainstreaming and in general serves as
a governance reform strategy in Davao City;
b. Stipulate procedure to methodically collect, store, track, manage, interpret, and
utilize data of FRs, FVEs, and receiving unit given the localized, customized,
efficient, collaboraUve and holistic approach through the E-CIJP Information
System (E-CLIP $), thereby decreasing the processing time in the release of
assistance and the reintegration of FRs and FVEs to their communities as
stipulated in Department of the Interior and Local Government (DILG) and
Department of National Defense (DND) Joint Memorandum Circular No. 01,
SERIES of 202L (lMC 01, SERIES of 202t, for brevity) entitled "Implementing
Guidelines on the Provision of DllG-administered Package of Assistance for FRs
and FVEs under the E-CLIP;
c. Define the specific roles and responsibilities of all partners and stakeholders for
the effective and efficient implementation of Ute program in Davao City such
as, but not limited to, the Davao City E-CllP Committee, City Social Welfare
and Development Office, Kalinaw Village, Joint Armed Forces of the Philippines
and Philippine NaUonal Police Intelligence Committee (JAPIC), Barangay
Officials, Davao City Peace and Order Council, Civil Society Organizations and
FRs and FVEs.
I

Page 3 of22
Ord. No. 0998-22
CHAPTER II
SCOPE/COVERAGE
sEcTIoN4.W-Thisordinanceandallpolicieshereinshall
cover all areas in the City of Davao. For Davao City E-CLIP and other peftinent programs
and seruices, the area of coverage includes all regular CPP-NPA-NDF, Militia ng Bayan,
Abu Sayryaf Group, Maute Group, Dawla Islamiya, Bangsamoro, Islamic Freedom Fighter
and Turaife Group, referred to as FRs and FVEs, whose former units operated in Davao
City, who are themselves residents of Davao City or those who sunendered in Davao City.
CHAPTER III
E-CLIP COMMITTEE AND KALINAW VILLAGE ADMINISTRATION
SECTION 5. IMPLEMEI{TORS - To implement the provisions of this Ordinance,
there shall be:
a. Davao City E-CUP Committee;
b. E-CLIP Secretariat and Technica! Working Group; and
c. Halfiruay House Kalinaw Village Management and Administration
SECTIOil 6. COMPOSITION OF THE E-CLIP COMMITTEE
The Davao City E-CUP Committee shall be composed of the following or the respective
heads of the following offices, to wit:
Chairperson - Davao City Mayor
Co-Chairperson - Commanding fficer, Philippine Army having jurisdiction
of Davao City
Memberc:
- City Administrator
- City Social Welfare and Development Office (CSWDO)
- Davao City Peace 911
- Depaftment of the Interior and Local Government (DILG)
- Davao City Police Office (DCPO)
- Committee on Peace and Order of the City Council
- Committee on Civil, Political and Human Rights
- Liga ng mga Barangay
- RepresentaUve from each of the following organizations:
o Representative from Civil Society Organization (CSO)
o Davao City Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Inc. (DCCGI)
o Representative from FRs and FVEs
o The Media Sector
6a. The City Mayor, as Chair of the City E-CLIP Committee, shall identify
and appoint the qualified representatives from the Media Sector and CSO who
must be a member of the Davao City Peace and Order Council.
6b. The E-CLIP Committee shall set appropriate parameters for the FRs and
FVEs RepresentaUve nominee, then unanimously vote and approve in terms of the
representation of the FRs and FVEs in the E-CllP Committee.

Page 4 of22
Ord. No. 0998-22
SECTION 7. COMPOSITION OF THE HALFWAY HOUSE KALINAW VILLAGE
7a. The Kalinaw Village for FRs and FVEs is under the administration of the
City Mayor as the E-CUP Committee Chairperson, through the direct management
of CSWDO who shall supervise the operations and the plans being employed.
7b. The Kalinaw Village shall have a CSWDO appointed Center Manager.
Under the Kalinaw Village Center Manager are the following:
a. Administrative SECTION;
b. Social Services SECTION;
c. Medical Seruices SECTION; and
d. Homelife Seruices SECTION.
SECTION 8. FUNCTIONS OF THE E.CLIP COMMITTEE AND THE KALINAW
VILIAGE MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION
8a. The Davao City E-CLIP Committee shall be responsible for the effective
implementation and institutionalization of Davao City's E-CLIP. Specifically, the
Davao City E-CLIP Committee is tasked to perform the following functions, to wit:
a. Ensure the convergent effort in the delivery of the identified
seruices of the program including reproduction and dissemination of E-CUP
Information, Education, and Communication (IEC) materials;
b. Ensure proper documentation and referral of the needs of the FRs
and FVEs to appropriate agencies and other paftner institutions including
profiling of the FRs and FVEs;
c. Assist the FRs and FVEs in compleUng the E{UP Enrolment Form.
The FRs and FVEs should either sign or thumb mark the Form after
completing it, attested by the DILG Provincial/Highly Urbanized City (HUC)
Director or Independent Component City (ICC) Local Government
Operations Officers (LGOO) and approved by the Provincial
Governor/HUC/ICC Mayor or by their designated officer preftrably the City
Administrator or CSWDO;
d. Assist the FRs and FVEs in the preparation and implementation of
their Former Rebel Reintegration Plan (FRRP)/ Former Violent Extremist
Reintegration Plan (FVERP) and Business Plan (Mungkahing Proyekto)
through the City SocialWelfare and Development Office (CSWDO) as a lead
office managing the Kalinaw Village to assist the FRs and FVEs. It shall have
the option to come up with its customized template (form) of FRRP/FVERP
and Business Plan, provided the minimum datasets reflected in the attached
form is complied with;
e. Conduct regular E-CLIP Committee meeting to discuss
coordination and monitoring initiatives on E-CLIP implementation in
Kalinaw Village, and resolve issues and concerns affecting Kalinaw Village
especially in terms of its interventions, programs and seruices for FRs and
FVEs, which shall furm paft of the repoft to the Provincial/Highly Urbanized
City or Independent Component City (P/HUC/ICC) Peace and Order Council
(POC) during its meetings;
,a

Ord. No. 0998-22
f. Facilitate the processing of the FRs and FVEs bifth certificates,
identification ID cards/documents, registration to the Philippine Health
Insurance Corporation (PHIC) and other necessary documents needed by
the paftner-stakeholders; and
g. Coordinate and repoft to the Depailrnent of Justice (DOJ), through
Local/Regional Task Forces to End Local Communist Armed Conflict
(URTFS- ELCAC), the FRs and FVEs who will signiff to avail the Amnesty
Program, subject to existing laws and policies.
8b. The City Govemment through the Davao Gty Mayor and the CSWDO
shall be responsible for the management and maintenance of Kalinaw Yillage. For
rcady teferene, attached to this Otdinance is the Halfway House
Kalinaw Village Opentions Manual as Annex %i The sid Operations
Manual may be subject to further revisions upon consultation with ECLIP Commiltee and tfie 6WIX),
The Kalinaw Village Center Manager is responsible for collating repofts
coming from the different Sections of the Center.
The Kalinaw Village Administration shall craft its own policies on the
administration of its personnel subject to existing laws, policies, or guidelines of
the Civil Seruice Commission or the City Government. This may include policies
and guidelines on leave, termination, hiring, discipline, work hours, etc.
The Administrative SECTION is responsible on all the structural, clerical, and
secretarial needs of Kalinaw Village for FRs and FVEs while the Social Services
SECTION is responsible for employing the programs and assistance for the
clients/residents. The Medical Seruices SECTION shall be responsible for the medical
and psychologica! needs of FRs and FVEs. The Homelife Seruices SECTION shall be
tasked to provide the basic seryices and needs of FRs and FVEs while in Kalinaw
Village.
Bc. E-CHP Committee and Kalinaw Center Manager Repoftorial
Tasks.
The Kalinaw Village Administration is expected to render regular repofts to
the Davao City E-CLIP Committee regarding its operations and the implementation
of its programs and services for the FRs and FVEs enrolled.
SECTION 9,
- The City
Social Welfare and Development Officer is hereby directed to identiff appropriate
personnel from its office to constitute as the City E-CUP Committee Secretariat and
Technical Working Group. They shall perform all clerical and documentation functions
attending the operation of E-CUP. The secretariat shall also be responsible for the
issuances of notices of meetings; preparation of venues fur the meetings including
logistica! suppoft; taking down, dissemination and filing of Minutes of meetings;
correspondence and allied functions.
When necessary, the City Administrator may assign and designate other City
Government personnel to perform roles and functions relative to and necessary for the
proper conduct of all administrative investigaUons and proceedings.

Page 6 of2L
Ord. No. 0998-22
SECTION 10. MEETINGS - The E-CLIP Committee and the Kalinaw Village shall
meet quafterly or at least four (4) times a year. A special meeting, whenever wananted,
may be called for. The agenda shal! contain plans, updata, resolutions of issues and
concerns and other matters related to the faithful implementation of E-CUP and the
operation of Kalinaw Village which provides interventions and other peftinent assistance
and seruices for the FRs and FVEs in Davao City.
CHAPTER IV.
DEFINMON OF TERMS
SECTION 11. DEFINffiON OF TERMS - As used fur purposes of this
Ordinance, all terms and phrases are defined in the DefiniUon of Terms, as follows:
Cost Valuation
the valuated cost of the firearm based on the price
ceiling set for a pafticular kind, make, and calibre
and its condition upon tum-in, which shall be
determined by the PNP Provincial/ HUC/ ICC
Logistics Office, AFP, and ProvinciaUHUC/ICC DILG
representatives of the E-CLIP Committee.
the process of assisting and guiding the FRs and
FVEs in resolving their personal, social or
psychological problems and difficulties.
Counselling Seruice
Deradicalization
the proaess or reversing the radical/rebellious
mindset of the FRs and the FVEs prior to their
return to the mainstream society and become
productive and law-abiding citizens by undergoing
Deradica I ization Program.
Deradicalization Program - aims to educate and prepare the FRs and FVEs for
their enrolment to the E-CUP and to ensure the
deradicalization of the FRs and FVEs.
Disposal
to sell by public bidding of the
demilitarized/destroyed firearms and the
destruction of ammunition and explosives per
approved procedures.
Disposition
the procedures to be followed in the handling of
turned-in firearms to include acceptance,
documentation, recording and disposal.
E-CLD Committee
fmplementation Plan
(ECCrn
E-CLfiP fnformation
System (IS)
the plan of the Province/Highly Urbanized City
(HUC) reflecting therein the consolidated needs of
the FRs and FVEs and the budget needed to
implement and monitor its progress. It shall form
paft of the Peace and Order and Public Safety
(POPS) Plan.
a customizable database system designed to
methodically collect, store, trac( manage,
interpret and utilize data on former rebels and
receiving units given the localized, customized,
efficient collaborative, and holistic approach taken
in the implementation of E-CUP.

Firearms (FA)
Former Rebels (FRs)
Former Rebel
Reintegration Plan
(FRRP)
Former Violent
ErtremisB (FVEs)
Former Violent
ExfiemisB Reintqration
Plan (FVERP)
Halfway House
PageT of 2L
Ord. No. 0998-22
any hand-held or polbble weapon, whether small
or light FA/weapon, that expels or designed to
expel a bullet, shot slug, missile or any projectile,
which is discharged by means of expansive force of
gases from burning gunpowder or other form of
combustion or any similar instrument or
implement. The banel, frame or receiver is
considered a firearm.
refer to the partner-stakeholders (beneficiaries) of
the program who were members of the Communist
Party of the Philippines (CPP), New People's Army
(NPA), National Democratic Front (NDF) and Militia
ng Bayan (MBs) who voluntarily abandoned the
armed sfruggle to become productive members of
the society.
the plan resulting from the individual assessment
undeftaken by the City Social Welfare and
Development ffice (CSWDO) with the Former
Rebel (FR). The identified needs of be FR shall be
matched with the existing available resources of
the province or resources that may be tapped to
addressthe needs ofthe FR.
refer to the paftner-stakeholderc (beneficiaries) of
the program who were members of the Abu Sayyaf
Group, Maute Group, Dawlah Islamiya,
Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighters, Turaife
Group and other violent extremist groups that
maybe identified by the Joint AFP-PNP Intelligence
Committee (JAPIC).
the plan resulting from the individual assessment
undeftaken by CSWDO's Authorized Personnel with
the FVE. The identified needs of the FVE shall be
matched with the existing available resources of
the province/city resources that may be tapped to
address the needs of the FVE.
the temporary residence that will serve as the
processing Center for FRs and FVEs. This could be
a new physical structure that will be established in
Provinces/Huc-s that have expressed the need for
such facility.
refers to the restoraton and
unbalanced emotional scars
experienced by the FRs and FVEs.
repairing of
or wounds
Healing

Healing and
Reconciliation (H A R)
fmmediate Family
Joint AFP-PflP
fntulligence Committee
(JAPTC)
Militia ng Bayan
Psyc h o I o g i ca I / @ch i a tri c
Seruice
Program Pattnerstakeholderc
(Beneficiaries)
Ord. No.0998-22
refers to both the process and the goal in obtaining
healing. It also refers to re-establishing
relationships between and among individuals,
groups and communities. H & R also contributes to
the restoration oi the psychoiogical and sociai ways
of the FR and FVE so that they are better able to
attain personal well-being. It also refers to
obtaining the goal of establishing healthy
relationship with others and becoming a productive
member of their community.
the spouse, direct descendants, or ascendants, by
consanguinity or affinity, of the FRs and FVEs.
refers to a Body created by viftue of APF-PNP Joint
Standing Operating Procedures (JSOP) Number 012008, issued on 3 June 2008, which shall be the
source of the authenticity of the FR and FVE.
refers to the mass supporters/individuals who have
been indoctinated, who may or may not be directly
involved in violent armed struggle but can provide
mass support to the "revolutionary movement" of
the CPP/NPA/NDF when organized. These
organized individuals form part of the mass-base
that serues as revolutionary enforcement in the
barrio. They secure the NPA forces while in the
community and, at times, are even armed to
reinforce the NPA during encounters. They are
trained with sniping and Improvised Explosives
Device (IED) deployment and detonation, among
other armed activities, which eventually qualifies
them to become the main source of NPA regulars.
referc to the psychological evaluation upon
admission in the halfuvay house to determine the
behavioral manifestations and mental state of the
FR and FVE for eventual referral to a psychiatrist,
if necesary.
FR and FVE who have expressed the desire to
abandon armed violence and become productive
member of the society; and, who has undergone
the authentication process, profiling, and needs
assessment by the City Social Welfare and
Development fficer (CSWDO).
Any of the following institutions or personalities
with whom the FR and FVE Ed safe and confident
to surface. Receiving units could be AFP, PNP,
CSOs, Local Government Unit (LGU) officials,
business, church, or community leaders, and any
civilian individual.
Receiving Unit

Ord. No.0998-22
Reconciliation
is rebuilding and renewal of mutual respect after
the conflict.
Regular llemberc of NPA
referc to full-time NPA members, such as those
belonging to Sandatahang Yunit Pampropaganda
(SYP), Platoon Gerilya (PLAGER), Sentro de
Grabidad (SDG) and Regional Yunit Gerilya (RYG).
Reintegration
referc to a process where 1) the FR or FVE
voluntarily disarms and undergoes mainstreaming
into a civilian and productive life, and 2) the FRs
and FVEs socio-economic well-being, including
their security and safety, psycho-social and legal
impediments are attended to by the government.
Seruiceable frrearms
refers to FAs that are in working condition based
on the PNP Guidelines on firearms disposition. It
also includes factory-made and improvised
firearms.
CHAPTER V
CONTENT AND GUIDELINES
SECTION 12. GUIDING PRINCIPLES - The implementation of the program
and Kalinaw Village Operations shall be guided by the following precepts:
12a. It shall be people-centered. The primary focus of E-CLIP and
Kalinaw Village Program shall be on people. Non-discrimination and fair and
equitable treatment of the stakeholders, pafticipants and beneficiaries are core
principles of the City Govemmenfs approach to Reintegration. Individuals shall
not be discriminated on the basis of sex, age, class, race, religion, nationality,
ethnic origin, political opinion, or other personal characteristics and associaUons;
and there shall be no differences in the suppoft provided based on the specific
needs of each sex and those of differing ages and physical abilities and the
Indigenous Peoples. The appropriate interventions aim to improve the quality of
life of the FRs, FVEs, their families and their communities.
12b. It shall be flexible, transparent and accountable. The
E-CllP/Reintegration Program shall be flexible, transparent and accountable:
Being flexible means that while complying with the program, it shall be adapted
to suit the situation in Davao City where the assistance and programs for FRs and
FVEs are being implemented, and easily adaptable to respond to highly volatile
situations and unexpected circumstances;
By being transparcnt, the program shall be carried out in such a way that
information is available to, and broadly understandable by the pafticipants,
beneficiaries, paftners and stakeholders, subject to reasonable limits needed to
protect privacy and ensure security.
The Davao City E-CLIP Committee and Kalinaw Village shall be
accountable to all the donors, the national agency paftnerc, beneficiaries and
pafticipants. Mechanisms set by this Ordinance including the provisions found in
JMC 01, SERIES of 2021, shall be established and implemented to ensure adequate
repofting, monitoring and evaluation of all the Davao City E-CUP and Kalinaw
Village operations and finances.

Ord. No.0998-22
L2c, It shall be nationally owned. The primary responsibility for
E-CUP/Reintegration Program rests with national government as the main author
of the Reintegration program; the City Government's role is to suppott the process
as part of the Whole-of-Nation approach while acknowledging the community as
a vital unit in the society that directly assists the FRs and FVEs to become
productive citizens and paft of the mainstream.
Genuine national ownership requires the participation of a wide range of
State and non-State actors at the national, regional and local levels, including
Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) and Civil Society Organizations (CSOs).
The City Government shall work to ensure E-CUP/Reintegration programs are
nationally owned. The City Govemment shall use every oppoftunity to
systematically develop and strengthen the national capacity for this Program.
12d. It shall be integrated. The E-CUPlReintegration Program is a
combined peacekeeping, peace-building, and development, and involves various
national agencies, military, police and civilian actors and institutions.
As such, this pafticular program requires an integrated approach, which in
turn requires much more than simple coordination. As shown by the E-CUP
Committee composition, being chaired by the City Mayor, the Davao City
Government, through the E-CUP Committee, shall ensure:
o joint and coherent planning, programming and funding at the national, the
regional and the local levels;
o adequate and appropriate links with related programs, such as recovery or
rule of law; and
o appropriate links with other regional, provincial and cities
E-CUP/Reintegration Program initiatives.
12e. It must be well-planned. The E-CllP/Reintegration Program and
Kalinaw Village operations shall be well-planned to ensure quality in the delivery
of seruices. This will be ensured by paying pafticular attention to the following key
issues: safety and security; coordination; assessment, monitoring and evaluation;
information and sensitizafion; and a time-bound transition and clear exit strategy
corresponding to the FRs and FVEs Reintegration Plan.
It is also impoftant to recognize that the FRs and FVEs are activd partners
of the program and shall not simply be treated as "beneficiaries," and therefore
has a crucial and most vital role in the implementation process, thus, their
membership in the E-CUP Committee and in employing FRs and FVEs in Kalinaw
Village.
SECTION 13. PARTNERS-STAKEHOLDERS -
The following paftnerstakeholders shall enjoy the benefits and other assistance provided under the Davao City
Enhanced Comprehensive Local Integration Program (E-CUP) and other peftinent
Assistance:
13a. Former Rebels (FRs):
13a.1. Refer to the partner-stakeholders (beneficiaries) of the program who
were members of the Communist ParU of the Philippines (CPP), New
People's Army (NPA), National Democratic Front (NDF) and Militia ng Bayan
(MBs) who voluntarily abandoned the armed struggle to become productive
members of the society;

Page 11 of2l
Ord. No. A998-22
13a.2. Those who have suffaced on April 3, 2018 onwards and have
expressed the desire to abandon armed violence and become productive
members of the society, including their immediate family members; and
13a.3. Those who surfaced starting July t,2016 as well as those who have
been processed but did not receive the full assistance under the
Comprehensive Local Integration Program.
13b. Former Violent Extremists (FVEs)
13b.1. Refer to the paftner-stakeholders (beneficiaries) of the program who
were members of the Abu Sayyaf Group, Maute Group, Dawlah Islamiya,
Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighters, Turaife Group and other violent
extremist groups that may be identified by the loint AFP-PNP Intelligence
Committee (JAPIC).
L3b.2. Those who have surfaced on April 3, 2018, onwards and have
expressed the desire to abandon armed violence and be paft of the
mainstream society including their immediate family members, if applicable.
13b.3. Those FVEs who sufaced stafting July 1, 2016, provided that
circumstances of their surrender to receiving unit may be proven, and that
assistance of the same nature was not received.
13c. FRs and FVEs who wene already beneficiaries of any previous
reintegration programs shal! not be qualified to receive the Davao City
E-CLIP and other pertinent assistance provided in Kalinaw Village.
13d. Joint AFP-PNP Intelligence Committee (JAPIC) Ceftification
13d.1. Both FRs and FVEs must be ceftified by the Joint AFP-PNP
Intelligence Committee (JAPIC) to be qualified for E-CLIP and other
peftinent assistance provided by Kalinaw Village.
L3d.2. The JAPIC Certification shall hold even if the FR or FVE dies or has
a pending case while his/her enrollment to the program is being processed.
In such instances, his/her identified beneficiary/ies shall receive the E-CUP
benefits and other peftinent assistance. In the event that the FR or FVE
failed to identiff/designate any beneficiaries, the Davao City E-CLIP
Committee has the authority to conduct validation/investigation as to the
possible selection of a new beneficiary based on peftinent laws on
succession.
13d.3. In the issuance of JAPIC ceftificate, the Periodic Status Repoft of
Threat Group (PSR-TG) list for 2018 shall be the basis in the determination
of the eligibility of the FRs and FVEs who will be enrolled in E-CLIP and
other pertinent assistance. If the FR or FVE is not listed in the 2018
PSR-TG list, only those who can be conclusively proven FRs and FVEs, on
or before December 31, 2018, shall be considered for enrollment in the
program upon further assessment and decision of the Davao City E-CLIP
Committee.
SECTION 14. KALINAW VILLAGE ADMISSION CRfTERIA - Regardless of
sex, status, age, race, those who satisff the following conditions are eligible to be
accepted into the Kalinaw Village, to wit:

Page 12 of 2l
Ord. No. 0998-22
14a. Former Members of the Communist Pafty of the Philippines (CPP), New
People's Army (NPA), National Democratic Front (NDF) and Militia ng Bayan
(MB) who surfaced from April 03, 2018, onwards.
14b. Those who have sufaced from July 01, 2016 and has been processed
in a halfiruay house but did not receive the full assistance of the E- CLIP for
the period July 1, 2016 to Apri! 3, 2018.
14c. Modes of Admission may be:
. Referral - refers to FRs or FVEs who have been referred by
AFP/PNP, LGUs, NGOs, church groups and personalities with the
knowledge and approval of the Davao City E-CLIP Committee Chair.
. Walk in - referc to FRs or FVEs who come directly to the home to
seek assistance and protection with a referral from any government
institution.
SECTION 15. BENEFITS AND OTHER ASSISTAilCE - Along with the benefits
and assistance provided by the National Government Agencies and subject to availability
of funds, the LGU shall also provide the following:
a. Firearm Remuneration;
b. Educational seruices from the Educational Benefit System Unit (EBSU) and
Scholarship on Teftiary Education Program (SIEP) for their children from the
City Mayor's Office;
c. Financial Assistance for Livelihood Assistance in Crisis Situation;
d. Food and other basic needs and transpoftation assistance from the City Social
Welfare and Development Office (CSWDO);
e. Medical seruices from the City Health Office and Lingap Para sa Mahirap
program;
f. Hog raising and native chicken raising from the City Veterinarian's Office;
g. Home Gardening and Farming from the City Agriculturisfs Office;
h. Assistance in the Registration of Certificate of Live Bifth of FRs and FVEs from
the City Local Civil Registrar's Office;
i. Trainings and Seminars for Proper Waste Disposal Management from the City
Environment and Natural Resources Office (CENRO);
j. Kalinaw Village provides free board and lodging to FRs and FVEs for a period
of four (4) to six (6) months and also caters or provides the various intervention
programs during their accommodation and food assistance to families they left
behind; and
k. Provide free employment facilitation seruices and other information on job
oppoftunities for FRs and FVEs from the Public Employment Service Office.

Page 13 ofZL
Ord. No. 0998-22
The foregoing offices shall give priority to the FRs and FVEs for the aforesaid
benefits and services.
SECTION 16. E.CLIP PHASES AND PROCESS . THE FOTLOWING ARE THE
GUIDELINES FOR THE E-CLIP PHASES AND PROCESSES, TO WIT:
16a. Pre-Sufacing Phase. This refers to the initial discussions between:
1.) A member of the CPP, NPA, NDF, MB, Abu Sayyaf Group, Maute group,
Dawla Islamiya, Bangsamoro, Islamic Freedom Fighter, Turaife Group, and other
violent extremists'groups that may be identified by JAPIC, who is deciding to
surface; and
2.) The receiving unit.
Step 1. The FR or FVE signifies his/her intention to sudace in any of the
following receiving unit/personality: AFP, PNP, LGUs, CSOs, and to any civilian
individual with whom the FR or FVE feels safe and confident to surface.
Step 2. The Receiving Unit takes primary responsibility in informing the
surfacing FR and FVE of the program and processes and interuentions that can be
extended to him/her upon surfacing. For an individual citizen taking care of the
FR and FVE, she/he can bring him to.any of the institutions mentioned in Step 1.
The Davao City E-CLIP Committee, the CSWDO through Kalinaw Village shall be
informed immediately of the names of the suffacing FRs and FVEs. The E-CLIP
Committee and Kalinaw Village shall ensure that the confidentiality of the names
of the FRs and FVEs will'be protected.
16b. Actual Sudacing Phase. This refers to the conduct of preliminary
interviews using the prescribed Initial Interuiew form, turning in of firearms, joint
validation of AFP and PNP, and filling out of the E-CLIP Enrollment Form. I/re
duration of the processing pha* shall not exced two (2) welcs from
the time the FR or HlE has surtaed to the rueiving unit,
Step 3A. The CSWDO or designated personnel by the E-CLIP Committee
validates the name of the surfrcing FR or FVE from the databank to ascertain
whether such person was a recipient of the past reintegration programs. If the
surfacing FR or FVE has already availed the assistance, the CSWDO shall inform
him/her that he/she can no longer avail the program under E-CLIP with the
DllG-administered package of assistance, and may refer him/her for possible
assistance under the regular programs of Kalinaw Village and other paftner
agencies.
Step 38. Based on the result of the validation, if the FR or FVE is eligible
for the Program, he or she shall be endorsed for processing. While awaiting the
enrolment, he/she may be billeted in Kalinaw Village.
Step 4A. Parallel or before this process, JAPIC shall convene to perform
the authentication procedures of the surfacing FR or fllE. This shall be done not
more than two (2) weelcs after an FR or FllE had surfaed,
Step 48. If the FR or FVE has firearm/s, the PNP shall secure the firearms
for appropriate processing.

Page t4of2L
Ord. No. 0998-22
Step 4C. The JAPIC shall submit to the E-CLIP Committee, through
CSWDO, the results of their verification, copy furnish the DILG City Director, within
two (2) weeks after the FR or FVE had sufaced.
Step 4D. Upon receipt of the JAPIC Ceftification, the E-CLIP Enrollment
Form shall be accomplished by the FR or FVE to be assisted by the Social Worker
assigned by CSWDO. This shall be attested by the DILG and PNP City Directors,
CSWDO and CSO Representative, approved by the City Mayor or his/her
designated representative, and the AFP Brtgade Commander.
Step 4E. After the completion of the E-CLIP Enrollment Form, the CSWDO
shall facilitate the provision of social protection services for FRs and FVEs such as,
but not limited to, health and medical assistance, PHILHEALTH membership,
issuance of lDs/ceftificaUon, education assistance, and other services while staying
in Kalinaw Village.
Step 5A. While the FR or FVE is at Kalinaw Village, the Social Worker
assigned by CSWDO shall conduct the interuiew using the Initial Interuiew Form.
The admission orientation shall be facilitated by the CSWDO or designated
personnel in Kalinaw Village, and administer the Profiling Interuiew Form.
Step 58. The Davao City E-CLIP Committee shall ensure that appropriate
security arrangements and necessitie (i.e., meals, clothing) of the FR and FVE are
provided on time while at Kalinaw Village, which shall include, but not limited to,
the following:
. PsychologicaU Psychiatric seruices;
. Counselling seruices;
. Legal Seruices; and
. Life skills/values formation.
Step 6. The Kalinaw Village shall facilitate the processing of the E-CLIP
package of assistance for FRs and FVEs to all applicable agencies, local and
national.
Step 7. Settlement of Claims- The Kalinaw Village shall assist the FRs
and FVEs in the processing, settlement and claims of check granted to the FR or
FVE, and/or Receiving Unit coming from the government agencies. -
16c. Reintegration Phase. This refers to the oafting and implementation of the
FRRP or FVERP, which shall serue as a guide as to what kind of assistance should be
provided to the FR or FVE, and the Ume frame of its release.
Step 8. The Kalinaw Village, with the active the participation of the FR or
FVE, shall accomplish the Former Rebel Integration Plan (FRRP) or Former Violent
Extremist Reintegration Plan (FVERP). A Business Plan (Mungkahing ProyeKo)
shal! also be prepared by Kalinaw Village together with the FR and FVE. This will
be done in consultation with concerned paftner agencies.
Step 9. The Kalinaw Village shall assist in the implementation of the FRRP
or FVERP as may be contained in the following packages:
. Social Protection Package (i.e. issuance of government ID, registration of
bifth and maniage, registration in the Philippine Identification System
(PhilID), Philhealth enrollment and others);

Page 15 ofZl
Ord. No. 0998-22
Healing and Reconciliation (i.e. psycho-emotional, community reconciliation,
life skills training and others);
Legal, Security and Disarmament (i.e. legal counsel, security guarantees and
disarmament, and others); and
Economic Mainstreaming (i.e. employment referral, self-employmenflmicroenterprise development and others).
Step 10. If the FR or FVE dies or has a pending case and unable to directly
implement the project, livelihood assistance shall be provided to his/her identified
beneficiary. This will satisfy the government's commitment to FR and FVE.
Step 11. Upon completion of the LGU's basic healing and reconciliation
program, the FR or FVE is discharged from Kalinaw Village after receiving his/her
livelihood assistance.
Step 12. Other assistance as stipulated in the FRRP or FVERP shall be provided
after the FR or FVE has been discharged from Kalinaw Village.
sEcTroN 17. KALTNAW VTLLAGE ANp rTS GUTDELTNES FOR ADMTSSTON - a
Kalinaw Village is a temporary shelter facility in Davao City for former members of the
Communist Party of the Philippines - New People's Army - National Democratic Front (CPPNPA-NDF), Abu Sayyaf Group, Maute group, Dawla Islamiya, Bangsamoro, Islamic Freedom
Fighter, Turaife Grcup, Militia ng Bayan and other former violent o<tremists who have
abandoned armed struggle and reintegrate into the mainstream society.
Kalinaw Village setves as a venue where various interuenUons in preparation
for the mainstreaming of FRs or FVEs can be undertaken. These programs range from deradicalization, social healing and reconciliation, spiritual and moral enhancement, health and
wellness, sports and other physical activities, etc. To optimize the benefits of this shelter, it
must be equipped to allow the conduct of education and skills training and other relevant
activities.
Kalinaw Village is primarily for the purpose of providing temporary shelter to FRs and
FVEs. However, in cases of natural or man-made disasters wherein the City is in need of
temporary evacuation center, the House may be used temporarily as multipurpose facility to
house evacuees, provided no FRs or FVEs are occupying the sme.
-^SECTION 18. ADMISSION PROCEDURE- The Ka I i naw Vi I la ge adm ission proced u re
and in-process procedures will follow those as stipulated in the Kalinaw Village Operations
Manual.
Admission procedures and in-processing procedures may be subject to change upon
consultation with the E-CLIP Committee and Kalinaw Village.
SECTION 19. CONFIDENTIALITY - To ensure security and confidentiality, no
media or any researchers are allowed to conduct any interuiews to an FR or FVE without the
approval of the FR/FVE, the CSWDO Head and E-CUP Committee.
SECTION 20. RE-ADMISSION - Residents who left the center without permission
may be re-admitted upon assessment and recommendation by the assigned Socia! Worker in
Kalinaw Village. An FR or FVE who left the facility without permission and returned back shall
be dealt with fairly. The FRs and FVEs shall be assessed by the Programs and Seruices SECTION
for re-admission. Disciplinary actions shall be imposed but this should not jeopardize the
healing of the FRs and FVEs nor be deprived of the programs and seruices of the Kalinaw
Village.
a
o
a

)
Page 16 of2l
Ord. No. 0998-22
SECTION 21. KATINAW VILTAGE OPERATIONAL GUIDELINES - The Kalinaw
Village shall be governed by general guidelines and policies on operaUons, to wit:
a. All FRs and FVEs admitted in Kalinaw Village shall be treated with care,
understanding, respect and suppoft that they need.
b. Donations for Kalinaw Village, either in cash or in kind, shall be properly
recorded, accounted and reported to the City Government Office and the E-CLIP
Committee.
c. All perconnel of Kalinaw Village rcgardless of position and employment
status shall not receive any gifts frcm potential clients and other significant
persons involved in the healing and recovery process. Gifts may be given to a
ceftain worker in kind, but not monetary in nature, due to exemplary peformance
which is contributory to the healing process.
d. An FR or FVE who manifests psychotic behavior, mental and personal
disorder shall be immediately refened to medical proftssional or mental health
hospitals for fufther psychologicafpsychiatric treatment.
e. Duration of stay of an FR and FVE in Kalinaw Village shall be subject to the
duration of the program crafted by the Halfuay House Administration for FRs and
FVEs.
f . FRs or FVEs who left the home without any permission may be readmitted
upon assessment and recommendation by the assigned Social Worker but subject
for disciplinary action.
g. Any untoward incident in Kalinaw Village such as accidents, deaths,
ascendance, and riots, shall be repofted to the Security Personnel who shall then
repoft to the Center Manager. The Center Manager shall officially inform the
E-CLIP Committee of the incident within 24 hours ftom receipt of the repoft.
Likewise, local AFP and PNP units shall also be notified of the incident and be
allowed to conduct appropriate investigation if need be.
h. Thorough planning and team conferences shall be undertaken before an FR
or FVE shall be discharged from the home to ensure that there is support system
from the Local Government Unit, Barangay Council and families concerned.
i. All cases referred to in Kalinaw Village shall be treated with confidentiality
and can only be discussed between and among the reintegration team.
SECTION 22. KALIilAW VILI-AGE TREATMENT TO FRS AND FVES - The
City Government through the Kalinaw Village assumes no responsibility for the safety of
reintegration pafticipants where the FR or FVE refuses or chooses to stay out of the
center.
In such cases, the Center Manager shall require the FR or FVE to identiff at least
one (1) person of good standing and with known residence in the community willing to
take the responsibility of keeping his or her safety, and in the presentation of the person
for the purpose of undeftaking and compleUng the necessary reintegration processes.

Page 17 of2l
Ord. No. 0988-21
SECTION 23. KALINAW VILLAGE VISITATION POIICIES - FRs or FVEs can
enjoy visitation from families, relatives, referring party and friends. Non-family members
shall first seek the approval of the Center Manager prior to visiting an FR or FVE.
23a. The Crnter Manager may disapprove the request for the visit if:
1. It can hamper the healing and recovery process of the FR or FVE to be
visited or other former rebels in the facility;
2. The FR or FVE to be visited does not want to enteftain the visitor;
3. The visit may jeopardize the operations of Kalinaw Village; or,
4. If the visitor exhibits rude or untoward behavior towards the staff of the
Kalinaw Village, FR or FVE.
23b. No visitors are allowed to bring the resident outside the Kalinaw Village unless
approved by the Crnter Manager. The approval shall be in terms of an "Out on Pass Slip"
accomplished by the FR or FVE and approved by the Center Manager.
23c. Visitors can only be entertained at designated areas.
23d. For visiting spouses wanting to stay overnight, accommodation shall be
arranged by the Halfiruay House Administration at conjugal areas or family home.
23e. Media practitioners or researchers wanting to interuiew FRs and FVEs shall
first seek the approva! of the CSWDO Head or the E-CLIP Committee. The CSWDO Head
or E-CLIP Committee can impose ceftain conditions to the output from such interuiew
such as blurring of the FRs or FVEs' facels, alteration on the voice, use of alias, and nonrelease of other data that may compromise the safety and security of the FR/s or FVE/s
or the operations of Kalinaw Village.
23f. Cameras and other video devices during the visit shall be strictly prohibited
unless otherwise approved by CSWDO or the E-CUP Committee.
SECTION 24. LEAVING WITHOUT PERMISSION . In cases when a ceftain FR
or FVE leaves the Kalinaw Village without permission, the following shall be undeftaken:
a. When such an incident is discovered, it shall be reported to the Programs and
Seruices SECTION Head and the Security Personnel on duty. They will then
inform the Halfiruay House Administrator of the incident. The family and
relatives of the FR or FVE shall be informed of the incident through fastest
means of communication;
b. A roll call of the remaining FRs or FVEs in the Kalinaw Village shall be conducted
to ensure that all residents are accounted for. FRs or FVEs may be interviewed
to determine information on the delinquent resident's reason for leaving;
c. If it is discovered that the FR or FVE had gone home, coordination with the
local government units shall be undertaken to assess and monitor the FR or
FVE. In such cases, the Halfiruay House Administration, if possible, should talk
to the FR or FVE to determine the reason for leaving, and possibly convince
them to return to the Kalinaw Village. An Incident Report shall be submitted to
the E-CLIP Committee within 24 hours of discovering that an FR or FVE left the
Kalinaw Village without permission;
d. The security personnel on duty shall notiff the nearest PNP or AFP unit to
blotter the case. A copy of the blotter shall be retrieved and included in the
case folder of the FR or FVE.

Page 18 ot2l
Ord. No. 0998-22
SECTION 25. SPECIAL OCCASIONS - FRs or FVEs shall not be deprived of
opportunities to enjoy and pafticipate during special occasions while staying in the
Kalinaw Village. This includes activities that may be done outside such as birthday/s of
their family members, anniversaries (wedding, death, etc.), weddings, and wake of
deceased relatives or friends, provided that they seek permission and approval of the
Halfrvay House Administration.
In coordination with the local AFP and PNP units, activities done outside the
premises of the facility shall be provided with security.
Birthdays shall be celebrated monthly for each celebrant and simple activities shall
be undertaken, but strictly no liquor and other odd activities that can cause trouble and
harm.
SECTION 26. FRs OR FVEs WITH PENDII{G COURT CASES - FoT FRS oT FVES
with pending court cases, they shall be governed by the following Rules, as follows:
a. Custodia! management for FRs or FVEs with pending court cases may be placed
under the responsibility of the Kalinaw Village and in presentation of the Center
Manager for the purpose of undeftaking and completing the necessary couft
processes subject to the approval of the E-CUP Committee and the Center
Manager;
b. The Kalinaw Village shall be responsible in taking care of the FR or FVE whose
custody was entrusted to them, whose participation in activities and privileges,
and whose duration of stay may be subject to conditions that may be set by a
competent court;
c. In coordination with the local PNP or AFP units, the Kalinaw Village is responsible
in transpofting the FR or FVE to attend court hearings or during consultations with
his/her legal counsel;
d. The legal counsel of the FR or FVE should be allowed access to visit his/her
client any time;
e. In coordinaUon with the IocalAFP or PNP units, extra security measures may be
put in place to ensure that the FR or FVE cannot escape from the custody of
Kalinaw Village;
f. Updates on the case of the FR or FVE shall also be included in the repoft of the
Kalinaw Village Center Manager or the E-CLIP Committee;
g.The Davao City E-CLIP Committee and Kalinaw Village shall issue supplementing
guidelines specifically for the treatment of FRs or FVEs with pending court cases.
SECTION 27. REOUIRED DOCUITIENTS - The required documents, as basis for
the release of the assistance, shall be based on the guidelines of the concerned agencies
or offices.

Page 19 ofZL
Ord. No. 0998-22
SECTION 28. SECURITY PROTOCOL
a. The Kalinaw Village, as designated processing areas where the processing
of applications for E-CLIP and Intervention Programs, Seruices and
assistance to FRs or FVEs takes place, should be secured at all times. The
E-CLIP Committee shall seek the support of the local PNP for the security
requirement of the premises and the applicants. The PNP, in coordination
with the AFP, determines additional security for high-profile FRs and FVEs
while being processed.
b. The E-CLIP Committee shall also ensure the FRs or FVEs safety and security
by limiting public access to their identity. Basic information such as name
and address as well as pictures shall not be publicized. Rlt the documents of
the E-CLIP Committee and Kalinaw Village shall be treated with confidentiality.
Only personnel authorized by the E-CLIP Committee and Kalinaw Village shall have
access to the documents.
c. Upon the sudacing of the FRs or FVEs until their reintegration in the
community security protocols vis-i-vis media shall be obserued at all
phases. FRs and FVEs name, address and location shall be treated with
confidentiality at all times. In cases wherein the information of the FR or
FVE was unofficially disclosed in any foffi, administrative case may be filed
against the person or institution which disseminated the information.
d. Non-disclosure agreements shall be executed by all the members of the
E-CUP Committee, Kalinaw Village, and their respective personnel and
employees and those who are invited in the admission process,
pre-discharge conferences and other similar meetings.
CHAPTER VI
MONITORING, EVALUATIOil AND LEARNING MECHANISM
SECTION 29. MONITORING AND EVAIUATION
a. The Davao City Government through the E-CLIP Committee, CSWDO, and
Peace and Order Council shall monitor and report the progress and the
sustainability of the implementation of the program. The Davao City Chief
Executive as the chair of the E-CLIP Committee shall task the CSWDO and
the Punong Barangay to monitor the progress of the FRs or FVEs using the
prescribed Monitoring Evaluation and Leaming (MEL) Form.
b. Initial Repoft shall be submitted a month after the FR or FVE has been
discharged from Kalinaw Village and every quarter thereafter for two (2)
consecutive years. The CSWDO and the Barangay Official shall be required
to submit a copy of the accomplished quarterly Monitoring Evaluation and
Learning form of the FR and FVE to the E-CLIP Committee and Kalinaw
Village.
SECTION 30. SUBMISSION OF REPORTS - Kalinaw Village shall render regular
administrative reports to the E-CLIP Committee regarding its operations and the
implementation of their programs and services for the FRs or FVEs enrolled.

Page 20 of2L
Ord. No. 0998-22
SECTION 31. CAPACITY DEVELOPMENT INTERVENTIONS - The Davao City
E-CUP Committee and Kalinaw Village in partnership with DILG, AFP, PNP and NBOO
PMO shall conduct capacity development interuentions for E-CLIP paftners and
stakeholders.
CHAPTER VII
FUNDING
SECTION 32. The funding requirements forthe implementaUon of the Davao City
E-CLIP and Kalinaw Village shall come from the funds allocated by the local government,
subject to compliance of government accounting and auditing rules and regulations.
The budgetary needs peftaining to the effective implementation of the Kalinaw
Village peftinent services, programs and interuention, including the payment of honoraria,
incidental and other expenses to the City E-CLIP Committee, its Secretariat, Technical
Staff, and other appropriate personnel, as may hereinafter be identified, shall be taken
from the available funds of the City Government of Davao, as well as from the funds
allocated by the national government for the herein purposes, subject to compliance of
the City Government and the National Government accounting and auditing rules and
regulations.
CHAPTER XII
FINAL PROVISION
SECTION 33. PENAL CIAUSE - Any violation of this Ordinance, existing laws,
ordinances, rules and regulations, shall be a ground for the cancellation or revocation of
membership of the Committee, application of the E-CLIP program and withdrawal of any
incentives granted under this Ordinance.
33a. Kalinaw Village- Halfiray House Administration shall institute
a complaint/grievance mechanism where former rebels or even employees
can file complaints or grievances against employees or even former rebels. Both
the complainanVs and defendanVs and the case itself shall be treated with
confidenUality. Appropriate investigation and disciplinary action shall be meted in
accordance with existing laws, policies, and procedures. The complaints and
progress of the case shall be repofted to the E-CUP Committee.
SECTION 34. rc
- If any provision of this Ordinance is
declared invalid or unconstitutional, the other provisions not affected thereby shall remain
valid and subsisting.
SECTION 35. REPEALING CIIUSE - AllOrdinances, Executive Orders and rules
and regulations or pafts thereof, which are inconsistent or in conflict with the provisions
of this Ordinance are hereby repealed, amended or modified accordingly.
SECTION 36. EFFECTMTY - This Ordinance shalltake effect immediately upon
its approval.
ENACTED, on the 28th day of June 2022, by a unanimous vote of all the Members
of the Sanggunian, there being a quorum.

j
Ord. No.0998-22
E
P
President
Temporary Presiding Officer
cns/kjtq
H. IAYOG
CERTIFIED CORRECT:
av5. lg
APPRoVED: AllG 1 g 2022 ,aazz
.,roc*?fth}ffi,
Secretary to the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod
(City Government Depaftment Head II)
ATTESTED:
ATTESTED:
ATTY.
SARA Z. DUTERTE
CiW Mayor V
t{
Acting
ATTY.
I
. LOPEZ
City
inistrator
AN ORDINANCE INSTITUTIONALIZING THE DAVAO CITY ENHANCED COMPREHENSIVE LOCAL
INTEGRATION PROGRAM (E-CLIP) FOR FORMER REBELS OR FORMER VIOLENT EXTREMISTS IN DAVAO
CITY AND OTHER PERTINENT PROGRAMS AND SERVICES AS PROVIDED BY THE HALFWAY HOUSE
KAUNAW VILLAGE
SEIASTIAT{ Z. DIITERTE
City Mayor
Dawo City
IBUYAN