2oth ciry Council
16s Regular Session
SERIES of 2022
PRESENT:
Vice Mayor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
J. Melchor B. Quitain Jr.
- Presiding Officer
Marissa S. Abella
Nilo M. Abellera Jr.
Luna Maria Dominique S. Acosta
Bai Hundra Cassandra Dominique N. Advincula
Bernard E. A!-ag
Wilberto E. AI-ag
Al Ryan S. Alejandre
Dante L. Apostol Sr.
Conrado C. Baluran
Jessica M. Bonguyan
Louie John J. Bonguyan
Pilar C. Braga
Augusto Javier G. Campos III
Jonard C. Dayap
Edgar P. Ibuyan Jr.
Edgar R. Ibuyan Sr.
Richlyn N. Justol-Baguilod
Diosdado Angelo Junior R. Mahipus
Rodolfo M. Mande
Jaffar U. Marohomsalic
Bonz Andre A. Militar
Temujin B. Ocampo
Myrna G. L'Dalodo-Ortiz
Albefto T. Ungab
Lorenzo Benjamin D. Villafuefte
Trisha Ann J. Villafuefte
Jesus Joseph P. Zozobrado III
ORDINANCE NO. 048,-22
SERIES of 2022
Ail ORDINANCE INSTITUTIONALIZING THE ENHANCED
SAFEW AND SECURIW MEASURES AND REGULATIONS IN
SPECIFIED AREAS AND DURING BIG EVENTS IN DAVAO CITY

Ord. No. 048-22
Be it ordained by the Honorable SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod of Davao City, in
session assembled, that:
SECTION 1. TfTLE - This Ordinance shall be known as "ENHANCED SAFETY
AND SECURITY MEASURES AND REGUTATIONS Iil SPECIFIED AREAS AND
DURIilG BIG EVENTS IN DAVAO CITY".
SECTION 2. DECLARATION OF POLICY - It is hereby declared the poliry of
the City of Davao to promote the welfare and safety of all Davao City residents and
visitors. Towards this end, enhanced safety and security protocols shall be established
in order to regulate and control the areas of convergence for the general welfare and
safety of Davaoefios.
SECTION 3. DEFINITION OF TERMS - As used in this Ordinance, th€
following terms shall mean:
a. Big Event - is an event, public in nature, that: /
i. Requires a Special lvlayor's Permit under existing regulations,
ii. Is attended by diplomats, dignitaries, or other persons whose
safety and security is a public matter;
iii. Is requested by the organizers to be covered as a "big event" for
the purpose of this Ordinance;
iv. Is determined to be an event that requires strict security measures
by the City Government of Davao, through the Public Safety and
Security Office.
b. Culture of Security - is a concept that entails commitment on the paft of all
Davao City residents and visitors to support the anti-terrorism effort which will in
turn help create a physically and psychologically secured community. These acts
include: i. Volunteering on any security protocols, propagation of city security
measures, or the conduct of investigation especially as a witness to
a crime;
ii. Repofting all suspicious persons and activities in the community;
iii. Reminding famif and friends of all security regulations in Davao
City; and
iv. Participating in various peace initiatives in the workplace, school,
purok, subdivision, and integrated community defense systems.
c. Security Forces - government agencies whose primary functions include the
maintenance of peace and order including, but not limited to, the Public Safety
and Security Office (PSSO), Task Force Davao C[FD), Davao City Police Office
(DCPO), and other authorized security offices and personnel.
d. Security Measures - refer to various efforts and strategies to minimize
potential threats to the peace and order in specified areas, including, but not
limited to, the:
i.
ii.
iii.
iv.
V.
vi.
Establishment of a limited entry and exit point;
Regular monitoring by security forces;
Establishment of physical and human barriers;
Installation of Closed-Circuit Television (CCTV) cameras;
Conduct of various security trainings and forums;
All other security measures under this Ordinance;
I

Ord. No. 048-22
e. Weighted Vest - a vest with weights sewn into it or with pockets which
a[[ow welghts to be inserted;
f . Hydration Vest - vests that are principally designed to transport water and
make drinking convenient and efficient, as well as other essential items;
g. Vendorc - any person who sells goods as covered by the City Economic and
Enterprise Office (CEEO) allowed within specified areas under SECTION 4 of this
Ordinance.
SECTION 4. ro
- This Ordinance requires enhanced safety
and security measures to be followed in the following areas:
o Government Buildings
. City Hall
. SangguniangPanlungsod
. Hall of Justice
o Major Parks
. People's Park
. Magsaysay Park
o Air Transpoft Terminals
' Davao International Airport
. 0[d Sasa Airpoft Terminal
o Water or Poft Transport Terminals
. Philippine Ports Authority (PPA)
. DAVSAM Wharf
. MaeWess Whaf
. Sta. Ana Whad
. Sasa Mini Pier (Km. 11)
. Davao Fishport Complex, commonly known as Toril Fish Port
o Land Transport Terminals
' Davao City Overland Transpoft Terminal (DCOTT)
o Existing Control Checkpoints
. Lasimg
. Sirawan
. Lacson
. Eden
. Malagos
o All other parks, centers, hotels, malls, and other event venues
when a big event occurs, such as, but not Iimited to:
. San Pedro Square (from San Pedro St. to corner Iffigo St.)
. Roxas Avenue (from Aldevinco to Paternos Street)
o For purposes of this ORDINANCE, al[ government establlshed night
markets shall be deemed as a covered area with a big event during
its operating hours and the established security measures and
regulations shall be complied with.
SECTIOil 5. MOI{ITORIi{G AilD IMpLEMEi{TII{G AGEi{CIES The
following agencies shall coordinate with the Public Safety and Security Office (PSSO), as
the lead agency, in the management, monitoring and implementation of the provisions
of this Ordinance:
1. Task Force Davao (TTD)
2. Davao City Police Office (DCPO)
3. Civil Aviation Authority of the Philippines (CAIP)- Davao City

Ord. No. 048-22
4. City Environment and Natural Resources Office (CENRO)
5. Philippine Coast Guard (PCG) District - Southeastern Mindanao
6. Coast Guard Station Davao (CGS)
7. Philippine National Police (PNP) Regional Maritime Unit (RMU) XI
8. City Transport and Traffic Management Office (CfTMO)
9. Davao City Fire District
10. Davao City Central 911
1 1. Tactical Operations Wing-Eastern Mi ndanao CfOWEASTMIN)
12. PNP Aviation Security Unit XI
13.Philippine Pofts Authority (PPA) - Port Management ffice (PMO)
Davao
14. Philippine Fisheries Development Authority (PFDA)
15. Maritime Industry Authority XI
SECTION 6. SECURITY MEASURES IN SPECIFIED AREAS - The following
security measures shal! be established and implemented by concerned agencies:
a) All government offices and employees within specified areas shall
adopt and practice the "Culture of Security" at all times;
b) Regular conduct of security meetings, visitations, workshops, and
simulation exercises organized by PSSO, in coordination with other
security forces and the Human Resource Management Office
(HRMO) of the City Government of Davao;
c) Conduct of Anti-terrorism Forums for residents, with the
pafticipation of the barangay, and vendors, with the support of the
City Economic Enterprise, within and surrounding the specified
areas, to encourage them to be active partners in protecting the
area;
d) Employees and establishments in the private sector shall be
encouraged to attend trainings and forum organized by PSSO, in
coordination with other security forces, related to the Culture of
Security;
e) Security forces shall be organized for complementary efforts within
the specified areas;
0 Security forces, in coordination with other law enforcement
agencies, shall inspect all vehicles and designate separate parking
areas for motorcycles and four (4)-wheeled vehicles away from
vital installations;
g) Securiff forces, in coordination with other law enforcement
agencies, shall maintain appropriate personnel and platforms in the
specified areas;
h) Security forces shall maintain Mobile Patrol Units along the streets
within the specified areas;
i) Private establishments along the specified areas shall maintain and
establish CCTVs in accordance with the CCTV Ordinance and other
laws;

Ord. No. 048-22
j) The local government shall also install and maintain CCWs in the
specified areas, which shall be coordinated with the PSSO City-wide
CCTV coverage;
k) The use of drones and the operation of General Aviation Aircrafts in
the specified areas shall be coordinated with CAAP Davao City and
PSSO under the Davao City Drone Ordinance;
l) All specified areas shall provide information signages in
coordination with the TFD, DCPO, and City Information Office
(AO) for public information and dissemination purposes;
m) PIant shrubs should be well-trimmed at all times. See-through plant
shrubs are highly encouraged;
n) For security and sanitation purposes, CENRO-Davao City shall
ensure that transparent garbage bins are being used within the
specified areas, without prejudice to those that are inside and are
covered by garbage bin protective walls; and
o) CENRO-Davao City shall prioritize the collection of garbage bins
within the specified areas.
SECTION 7.
- The following
security measures shall be established and implemented by the monitoring and
implementing agencies headed by the Public Safety and Security Office (PSSO):
a. During big events, organizers shall submit to PSSO their security
plan for the duration of the event;
b. If found to be necessary by the monitoring and implementing
agencies in the interest of public safety and security, a National
Police Clearance from the PNP and/or clearance from NBI shall also
be complied with and submitted by identified employees, vendors
or concessionaires;
c. Security forces shall deploy its K-9 and Explosive Ordnance Disposal
(EOD) Teams during big events;
d. The security cluster shall maintain a joint security command post
during big events;
e. During big events, Davao City 911 and the Davao City Fire District
shall conduct fire and emergency safety inspections before, during,
and after the event. They shall be colocated with the Safety and
Security Command Post, and have standby personnel, equipment,
and ambulances in case of emergenry;
f. All big events prior to their openings, shall provide adequate public
information to pafticipants regarding the security measures to be
practiced during their event, either through social media posting,
inclusion of a pamphlet or info-sheet of security measures in their
event kits, or other methods to disseminate such information.
I

Ord. No. 048-22
g. All big events shall provide signages in their entrances and around
the venue, as well as constant reminders to the event participants
of the security regulations for the event, in coordination with TFD,
DCPO, and City Information Office (CIO), for public information and
dissemination purposes;
h. For security and sanitation purposes, CENRO-Davao City shall
ensure that transparent garbage bins are being used, without
prejudice to those that are inside and are covered by garbage bin
protective walls; and
i. CENRO-Davao City shall prioritize the collection of garbage bins
during big events.
SECTION 8. REGULATIONS IN SPECIFIED AREAS The following
regulaUons shall be observed by all persons within the specified areas:
A
parcels, and items of similar nature shall be
prior to entry or passge through the specified
areas
B. Areas designated as "Restricted Areas', "Employees Only",
"Authorized Personnel Only" and the like, shall be established as
such in the interest of public safety and security. Any person who
enters the same without the proper authority shall be penalized
under this Ordinance and other applicable laws.
SECTION 9.
- During big events, the
following regulations shall be reasonably established and the public properly informed
of the same at least two weeks prior to the big event and may include, but will not be
limited to:
A. Carrying of bags, backpacks, and boxes may be strictly regulated
within the event area. The following regulations may be set:
a. Transparency regulations (such as only transparent bags will
be allowed)
b. Size restrictions (such as only small bags and pouches shall
be allowed)
c. Quantity restrictions (such as only one bag shall be allowed
per person)
B. Bringing or carrying of non-transparent water bottles,
non-transparent food containers, or non-transparent plastic wares
may be strictly regulated within the event area during big events,
when the security forces deem the need for such restriction. All
should be reminded to comply with the City's "No To Single Use
Plastic Ordinance and Policies".
C. The use of jackets, weighted vests, and hydration vests may also
be strictly regulated or prohibited within the event area during big
events.
D. Other restrictions deemed appropriate by the organizers and
security furces, and approved by PSSO.
It
All bags,

Ord. No. 048-22
SECTIOil 10. EXEMPTIONS TO THE REGUTATIONS - During big events,
the carrying of bags, boxes, parcels and others of similar nature, the wearing of jackets,
vests and the like, as wel! as the bringing of non-transparent food containers, food
containers and plastic wares belonging to registered vendors, those of the media,
designated event organizers, coordinators and participants, security forces and other
authorized civilian partners may be exempted from the established regulations, but shall
be subjected to inspection before they can be allowed inside.
SECTION 11. REFUSAL TO COMPLY WITH REGULATIONS
1. Any person unwilling to comply with the established regulations
before entering the specified areas or during big events shall not be
allowed to enter the same.
2. Any person, who, after due notice, willfully disregards or
contravenes the regulations within the specified areas or during big
events shall be penalized under this Ordinance, and other
applicable laws.
SECTION 12. INFORMATION AND EDUCATION CAMPAIGN - There shall
be a Public Information Drive regarding the implementation of this Ordinance and it
shall be headed by the City Information Office (CIO) with close coordination with PSSO
and other security forces.
Information dissemination through signages, flyers, audio-visual presentations,
and other forms of public information dissemination shall be established and placed in
the specified areas, within areas where the big event shall take place, or other areas of
convergence.
Event organizers, with the assistance of the City Information Office, shall be
responsible in informing all pafticipants and the general public of the security
regulations for their events, which shall be done at Ieast two (2) weeks prior to the date
of the event.
sEcTIoN13.re.Anyviolationoftheregulationsunderthis
Ordinance shall be penalized with a fine of Two Thousand Pesos (P2,000.00) and/or
one (1) month of imprisonment, upon the discretion of the coutt, and shall be required
to participate in an orientation or awareness lecture regarding the Culture of Security by
PSSO, in coordination with other security forces, without prejudice to the prosecution of
other criminal actions.
SECTIOil 14. ORDINANCE VIOLATION RECEIPT/CTTATION TICKET. An
ORDINANCE VIOI-ATION RECEIPT, otherwise known as a CITATION ICKET, shall be
issued to violators of this Ordinance. The citation ticket shall state the name and
address of the violator, the specific violation committed, and the provisions of the
succeeding SECTION, "No Contest Provision."
The Philippine National Police (PNP) and such other appropriate enforcers as may
be commissioned by the City Mayor shall have the power to apprehend violators of this
Ordinance and issue citation tickets.
The City Mayor may deputize Barangay Officials or representatives in the strict
implementation of this Ordinance, as the need arises.

Ord. No. 048-22
SECTION 15. ilO COilTEST PROVISIOil - Any person cited for violation of
this Ordinance who does not wish to contest the same and is willing to pay One
Thousand Pesos (P1,000) voluntarily within three (3) days the penalty imposed under
this Ordinance prior to the filing of a complaint before the Office of the City Prosecutor
shall be allowed to do so, and shall pay the corresponding penalty of One Thousand
Pesos (P1,000) at the City Treasurer's Office (CfO) or before the CTO's authorized
representatives in the barangays. The person cited, may in the alternative, render a
maximum of 16 hours of voluntary community service, if the fee cannot be produced.
Such persons, whether paying the fine or rendering seruice, shall likewise be
required to undergo a mandatory orientation or awareness lecture regarding the Culture
of Security by PSSO, in coordination with other security forces, without prejudice to the
prosecution of other criminal actions.
The City Legal Office (CLO) and the City Treasurert Office (CfO) shall provide
for the procedure for the availment of the "No Contest Provision" and establish a case
inventory and recording system of all violators of this Ordinance.
SECTION 16. CREATION OF THE TECHNICAL WORKING GROUP ffWG)
Chairpercon : City Mayor's Office (CMO)
Secretariat : Public Safety and Security Office (PSSO)
1. Task Force Davao C[FD)
2. Davao City Police Office (DCPO)
3. Civil Aviation Authority of the Philippines (CA4P)- Davao City
4. City Environment and Natural Resources Office (CENRO)
5. Coast Guard Station Davao (CGS)
6. City Transport and Traffic Management Offtce (CITMO)
7. Davao City Fire District
8. Davao City Central 911
9. Tactical Operations Wing-Eastern Mindanao (TOWEASTMIN)
10. Philippine Ports Authority (PPA) -Port Management Office (PMO) Davao
11.City Legal Office (CLO)
12.City Prosecutor's Office (CPDO)
l3.Chairperson of the Committee on Peace and Public Safety of the City
Council
14.Chairperson of the Committee on Anti-Terrorism of the City Council
SECTION L7. GENERAL FUNCTIONS OF THE TECHNICAL WORKING
GROUP The aforementioned group is responsible for the creation of the
Implementing Rules and Regulations of this Ordinance.
SECTION lS.
- The
Technical Working Group shall, within thirty (30) days after the Ordinance has been
approved, draft the necessary Implementing Rules and Regulations for the approval of
the City Mayor of Davao.
SECTION 19. REPEALING CLAUSE - Any Ordinance, local issuances or rules
inconsistent with the provisions of this Ordinance are hereby repealed or modified,
accordingly.
a

SECTION 20. SEPARABILITY C1AUSE - If, for any reason, any SECTION of this
Ordinance is declared unconstitutional or invalid, other sections or provisions hereof
which are not affected thereby, shall continue to be in full force and effect.
SECTION 21. EFFECTMTY - This Ordinance shall take effect immediately
upon approval, posting and publication in a newpaper of local circulation.
ENACTED, on the 24th day of October 2022, by a unanimous vote of all the
Members of the Sanggunian, there being a quorum.
CERTIFIED CORRECT:
^M\.1--
CHARTTO N.FANTOS
Secretary to the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod
(City Government Depaftment Head II)
ATTESTED:
ATTESTED:
J.M
ATTY. FRANCIS MARK H. LAYOG
Acting City Administrator
ELc/#g. eurrArN rR.
1\,tice Mayor
Presiding Officer
cns/ray
APPROVED:
Nov 2l?fin ,2022
City
mr.nnffiiro
|.ctinffi-Hmtitt:ilr:
AN ORDINANCE INSTITUTIONAUZING THE ENHANCED SAFETY AND SECURITY MEASURES AND
REGU1ATIONS IN SPECIFIED AREAS AND DURING BIG EVENTS IN DAVAO CITY
Ord. No. 0+8-22