lgthCity Council
S&Regular Session
SERIES of 2022
PRESENT:
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
ABSENT:
Vice Mayor
Councilor
Councilor
Edgar P. Ibuyan Jr.
Ralph O. Abella
Nilo D. Abellera
Bai Hundra Cassandra Dominique N. Advincula
Wilberto E. Al-ag
Dante L. Apostol Sr.
Conrado C. Baluran
Jessica M. Bonguyan
Louie John J. Bonguyan
Pilar C. Braga
Augusto Javier G. Campos III
Jonard C. Dayap
Edgar R. Ibuyan Sr.
Richlyn N. Justol-Baguilod
Pamela A. Librado-Morata
Diosdado Angelo Junior R. Mahipus
Rodolfo M. Mande
Bonifacio E. Militar
Myrna G. L'Dalodo-Ortiz
Antoinette G. Principe-Castrodes
J. Melchor B. Quitain Jr.
Albefto T. Ungab
Mary Joselle D. Villafuefte
Jesus Joseph P.Zozobrado III
Sebastian Z. Dutefte
Danilo C. Dayanghirang
Jaffar U. Marohomsalic
- Temporary Presiding Officer
- OB Acting City Mayor
-On Special Privilege Leave
ORDINANCE NO. 0873-22
SERIES of 2O22
AN ORDINANCE CREATING PEACE 911, THE CENTER FOR
PEACEBUILDTNG, AS A DMSTON OF THE CrTY MAYOR'S
oFFrcE (cMo), suBJEcT TO ALL LAWS AND EXTSTTNG
LEGAL RULES AND REGULATIONS

Page 2 of L4
Ord. No. 0873-22
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE- This Ordinance shall be known as the "Peace
911 Ordinance".
SECTION 2. DECLARATION OF PRINCIPLES AND POLICIES
A. The City Government of Davao is committed to building and maintaining a
peaceful society where its citizens have the capacity to lead long, happy lives
which is ultimately the goal of all development.
Peacebuilding should therefore be a cross-cutting theme in any development
plan or program. Peacebuilding is the process of increasing connectors and
decreasing dividers so that equitable development can occur. On the other
hand, development is the process of increasing capacities and decreasing
vulnerabilities so that people's choices are expanded to enable them to lead
long happy lives.
B. There are eight broad categories that create and sustain peaceful societies.
The Institute for Economics and Peace has identified the following eight (B)
Pillars of Positive Peace as the most common characteristics of most peaceful
societies. These pillars are:
. well-functioning government;
. low levels of corruption;
o dcc€ptance of the rights of others;
o good relations with neighbors;
o SoUr.ld business environment;
. high levels of human capital;
. equitable distribution of resources; and
. free flow of information.
The concept of Positive Peace acknowledges that ending direct violence alone
does not guarantee durable peace. Ending direct violence is Negative Peace.
For peace to endure, a society must build longer-term conditions that enable
society to unify and flourish. This is called Positive Peace. Investing in Positive
Peace improves resilience, mitigates risk of violence, and reduces the economic
toll from conflict. The Eight Pillars of Positive Peace are highly interconnected
and interact together to build a system. It therefore requires building capacities
for peace not only of the government but also of local communities and other
structures and institutions of the City. The establishment of Peace 911-The
Center for Peacebuilding will contribute to the achievement of the t7
Sustainable Development Goals of the United Nations, in pafticular Goal 16 on
building peace, justice and strong institutions, strengthening human rights,
reducing discrimination and inequality, promoting gender equality, preseruing
natural resources and protecting the climate.
C. SECTION 3(b) of Republic Act 7160 states that there shall be established in every
local government unit an accountable, efficient, and dynamic organizational
structure and operating mechanism that will meet the priority needs and
seruice requirements of its communities while SECTION 3(h) states that there
shall be a continuing mechanism to enhance local autonomy not only by
legislative enabling acts but also by administrative and organizational reforms;
D. SECTION 76 of Republic Act 7160 states that every local government unit shall
design and implement its own organizational structure and staffing pattern
taking into consideration its seruice requirements and financial capability

Page 3 of L4
Ord. No. 0873-22
SECTION 3. DEFINITION OF TERM AND ACRONYMS
SECTION 4. CREATION OF PEACE 911. THE CENTER FOR
PEACEBUILDING- Peace 911-The Center for Peacebuilding is hereby created as a
division under the Office of the City Mayor to serue as the peacebuilding office of the
A. Peace 911- The Center for Peacebuilding shall be created as a division of
the City Mayor's Office (CMO);
B. Peace 911- The Center for Peacebuilding shall adhere to the following vision
and mission:
1. Peace 911- The Center for Peacebuilding envisions peace as embedded
in justice, the building of right relationships and social structures,
through respect for one another and commitment to nonviolence as a
way of life;
2. The mission of Peace 911- The Center for Peacebuilding is to build
peaceful communities through people's participation in giood
governance, equitable economic development and cohesive social
relations within the framework of positive peace;
C. Peace 911- The Center for Peacebuilding shall be otherurise called as Peace
911;
R.A.7160
Republic Act No. 7t60, otheruise known as the Local
Government Code of the Philippines
UN
United Nations
IEP
Institute for Economics and Peace- an independent think
tank and leader in the study of peace and conflict
SG
Salary Grade
Peace 911
Short name that refers to Peace 911-The Center for
Peacebuildinq
PPA
Proqrams, Proiects and Activities
Peacebuilding
Seeks to address the underlying causes of conflict, helping
people to resolve their differences peacefully and lay the
foundations to prevent future violence (Conciliatory
Resources)
CMO
CiW Mayor's Office or Office of the CiW Mayor
E.O. No. 08,
SERIES of 2021
Executive Order Number 08, SERIES of 2027 - An Order
Amending Executive Order No. 54, SERIES of 2019,
Redefininq the Focus Area of Peace 911
E.O No. 54, SERIES
of 2019
Executive Order No. 54, SERIES of 2019 - An Order
Integrating Presidential Executive Order No. 70, SERIES of
2018, Promulgated by President Rodrigo Roa Dutefte and
its Implementing Guidelines Into the Peace 911, Providing
Funds Therefore and for Other Purposes
Peace 911
General
Committee
Policymaking body of Peace 911-The Center for
Peacebuilding as defined in E.O. No. 08, SERIES of 2021.
Secretariat
The administrative department of a governmental
organization ( Merriam-Webter)
The officials or office entrusted with administrative
duties, maintaining records, and overseeing or
performing secretarial duties (Dictionary.com)
subject to the minimum standards and guidelines prescribed by the Civil
Service Commission;

Ord. No. 0873-22
D. Peace 911- The Center for Peacebuilding shall be headed by a
Development Management Officer IV with Salary Grade 22;
E. A Development Management Officer III with Salary Grade 18 shall be the
assistant head of Peace 911- The Center for Peacebuiding;
F. Peace 911- The Center for Peacebuilding shall be composed of four (4)
sections namely;
Administrative Seruices SECTION
Program Management SECTION
Research and Documentation SECTION, and
Paftnership Management SECTION
SECTION 5. DUTIES AND FUNCTIONS OF PEACE 911 - The Center for
Peacebuilding- The duties and functioris of Peace 911- The Center for
Peacebuildidng are the following:
A. Mainstreams a peace perspective into the City's development plans and
programs;
B. Serues as the implementing arm of all initiatives embodied under the
peacebuilding program recommended by the Peace 911 General
Committee for the City of Davao, as approved by the City Mayor;
C. Plans and implements approved peacebuilding programs, projects and
activities;
D. Serues as the gatekeeper of all programs and projects to be implemented
within the Peace 911 focus areas, and as such, shall coordinate all efforts
and initiatives of the involved communities, government, NGOs, the
private sector and other paftners;
E. Creates a single channel (convergence) for all services, programs and
activities that shall be introduced to the focus areas;
F. Coordinates with teaching and training institutions to enhance government
and local capacities for peace;
G. Conducts researches/studies in all matters involving peace practice and
other programs relative to peace;
H. Forms partnerships with various groups of stakeholders to form a
community of practice in peacebuilding;
I. Coordinates with other national and local agencies in the implementation
of programs and projects;
J. Recommends to the City Mayor any actions/counter measures for all
concerns and issues which may arise from time to time relative to the
peacebuilding process and program implementation;
K. Acts as the secretariat of the Peace 911 General Committee;
L. Perform such other acts to ensure the implementation of peace objectives
of the national government.
SECTION 6. FUNCTIONS OF THE SECTIONS IN PEACE 911.THE
CENTER FOR PEACEBUILDING - Peace 911- The Center for Peacebuilding as a
Division under the Office of the City Mayor shall be composed of four (4) sections
with its respective functions, to wit:
A. The Functions of the Administrative SECTION are:
1. Provides assistance to other sections/units on all administrative
matters;
2. Assists other sections in the preparation of documents and other official
activities conducted by the office;
3. Performs other tasks that maybe assigned by immediate superiors
pursuant to the objectives of this Ordinance.
t

q_
,
Ord. No. 0873-22
B. The Functions of the Program Management SECTION are:
1. Plans and implements peacebuilding programs, projects and activities;
2. Engages in innovative peacebuilding practices;
3. Coordinates with peace teaching and training institutions to enhance
government and local capacities for peace; and
4. Performs other tasks that maybe assigned by immediate superiors
pursuant to the objectives of this Ordinance.
C. The Functions of the Research and Documentation SECTION are:
1. Conducts researches/studies in all matters involving peace promotion
and other programs relative to the peacebuilding process;
2. Conducts documentation on all matters involving peacebuilding
processes and peace promotion programs including lessons that will
enhance peace practice and to incorporate these into training
programs;
3. Peforms other tasks that maybe assigned by immediate superiors
pursuant to the objectives of this Ordinance.
D. The Functions of the Partnership Management SECTION are:
1. Builds a community of practice locally and regionally by building
mechanisms for cooperation among all relevant stakeholders;
2. Promotes cooperative problem-solving and institutionalizing appropriate
response mechanisms to violent conflicts;
3. Peforms other tasks that maybe assigned by immediate superiors
pursuant to the objectives of this Ordinance.
SECTION 7, CREATION OF PEACE 911 THE CENTER FOR
PEACEBUILDING PLANTILLA POSITIONS- Pursuant to SECTION 13 of Civil
Seruice Memorandum Circular No. 13, SERIES of L992, Guidelines and Standards in
the Establishment of Organizational Structure and Staffing Pattern in the Local
Government Units, and the DBM's Index of Occupational Seruices, Occupational
Groups, Classes and Salary Grades, the Peace 911-The Center for Peacebuilding
shall have the minimum regular positions and the respective numbers to be created.
A. Regular positions of Division Head and Assistant Division Head shall be
created in the Peace 911-The Center For Peacebuilding.
Class/Position Title
SG/Level
Number of
Positions
Development Management Officer IV
22lL
Development Management Officer III
1B/1
B. The following regular positions and the respective quantity shall be
created under the Administrative Seruices SECTION:
Class/Position Title
SG/Level
Number of
Positions
Administrative Offi cer IV
1s/1
Administrative Officer II
4lL
Administrative Aide IV (Driver II)
4lr
C. The following regular positions and the respective quantity shall be
created under the Program Management SECTION:

Page 6 of L4
Ord. No. 0873-22
D. Research and Documentation SECTION:
E. Paftnership Management SECTION:
Class/Position Title
SG/Level
Number of
Positions
Development Management Officer II
tslt
Development Management Officer I
TUL
Project Evaluation Assistant
8lr
SECTION 8. FUNCTIONS AND OUALIFICATIONS OF PLANTILLA
POSITIONS- The functions of the plantilla positions in the Peace 911-The Center
for Peacebuilding are hereby listed including the updated qualification standards for
ceftain positions per Civil Seruice Commission (CSC) and Commission on Audit (COA)
issuances. The Human Resource and Management Office (HRMO) may require
additional qualifications for each position relevant to the provisions of this Ordinance
and that of the Civil Seruice rules and regulations.
A. Development Management Officer IV (SG-22)
1. Qualifications
a. Bachelor's Degree relevant to the job;
b. Three (3) years of relevant seruice;
c. Fifteen (15) hours of relevant training;
d. Career Seruice (Professional) Second Level Eligibility;
2. The functions are:
a. Manages and superuises Peace 911-The Center for Peacebuilding;
b. Superuises all programs and projects to be implemented within
Peace 91l-The Center for Peacebuilding focus areas, and as such,
shall coordinate all efforts and initiatives to the involved
communities, government agencies concerned and/or to the
prospective project proponents, as may be necessary, in order to
effectively manage and smoothly carry out these programs, and at
the same time sustain peace in Davao City;
c. Superuises the implementation of all initiatives embodied under the
peacebuilding program designed by Peace 911-The Center for
Peacebuilding General Committee for the City of Davao, as may be
approved by the City Mayor;
d. Creates a single channel (convergence) for all seruices, programs
and activities that shall be introduced to the focus areas;
e. Coordinates with relevant national government agencies in the
implementation of programs and projects;
Class/Position Title
SG/Level
Number of
Positions
Development Manaqement Officer II
L5IL
Development Manaqement Officer I
TUL
Proiect Evaluation Assistant
8lL
Class/Position Title
SG/Level
Number of
Positions
Development Management Officer II
t5lr
Development Management Officer I
LtlL

PageT of 14
'
Ord. No. 0873-22
f. Reports any concerns and issues which may arise, from time to
time, to the City Mayor and recommend counter-measures;
g. Performs such other acts to ensure the implementation of the
Whole-of-Nation Approach of the national government.
B. Development Management Officer III (SG-18)
1. Qualifications
a. Bachelor's degree relevant to the job;
b. Two (2) years of relevant experience;
c. Eight hours of relevant training;
d. Career Seruice (Professional) Second Level Eligibility.
2. The functions are:
a. Assists in managing and superuising Peace 911-The Center for
Peacebuilding;
b. Assists in the development to ensure efficient operation of the
center;
c. Assists in the coordination with national and local government
agencies, non-government offices and the private sector, as peace
partners in bringing more positive peace in Peace 911-The Center
for Peacebuilding focus areas;
d. Assists in planning, developing and executing operating procedures
and programs that will be conducted by the center;
e. Assists the head of the center to ensure that all personnel are
informed of new or revised operating policies and that they are
properly implemented;
f . Assists in superuising the administrative functions of the office,
(e.g. supplies and records management, preparation of budget
proposals, human resource matters) and submits the reports and
proposals to the Officer-in-Charge;
g. Performs other tasks that may be assigned by the immediate
superior pursuant to the objectives of this Ordinance.
C. Regular Positions under the Administrative Seruices SECTION
1. Administrative Officer IV
SG-1
Qualifications:
a. Bachelor's degree relevant to the job;
b. One (1) year of relevant experience on DRRM;
c. Four (4) hours of relevant training on DRRM;
d. Career Seruice (Professional) Second Level
Etigibitity.
Functions:
a. Superuises the administrative functions of the
center relative to records management,
personnel administration, supply and property
utilization, budgeting, janitorial seruices,
including maintenance and repair;

b. Undertakes and coordinates in the
administration of fringe benefits and other
employee seruices;
c. Undeftakes the dissemination of latest
issuances relative to the functions of the
center;
d. Prepares necessary documents such as
memorandums, emails, and repofts needed by
the Officer-in-charge;
e. Organizes and schedules appointments and
meetings as approved by the Officer-incharge;
f. Plans meetings and take detailed minutes;
Performs such other related functions that
may, from time to time, be assigned by the
immediate su
sor
Page 8 of t4
Ord. No. 0873-22
2. Administrative Officer II (SG-a)
3. Administrative Aide IV (Driver II) (SG-4)
Qualifications:
a. Comptetion of two (2) years studies in college;
b. No experience required;
c. No training required;
d. Career Seruice (Sub-professional) First Level
Eligibility.
Functions:
a. Assists in performing frontline seruices to
clients, receiving, recording, releasing and
softing new, renewal and special permit
applications;
b. Scans permit files and attachments for easy
reference and retrieval;
c. Assists in creating metadata, record list and
uploading of e-records and files; and
d. Does other functions as may be directed by
immediate superiors.
Qualifications:
a. Elementary School graduate;
b. No experience required;
c. No training required;
d. Professional Driver's License (MC 10, s. 2013 -
Cat. IV).
Functions:
a. Safely and efficiently transport personnel,
office supplies and equipment using the office
vehicle;

Page 9 of t4
Ord. No. 0873-22
b. Undeftakes the proper maintenance and care
of the vehicles to ascertain that the said
vehicles are in good running condition;
c. Prepares reports on fuel and oil consumption
as well as the distance travelled for submission
to the City Accountant's Office and City
General Seruices Office;
d. Accomplish trip tickets by using the Daily
Authorized Trips Summary to ensure that the
trips are recorded and official; and
e. Does other related functions as may be
directed by immediate superiors.
D. Regular Positions under the Program Management SECTION
1. Devel
Mana
ment Officer II
SG-15
2. Development Ma
ement Officer I
SG-11
Qualifications:
a. Bachelor's degree relevant to the job;
b. One (1) year of relevant experience required;
c. Four (4) hours of relevant training required;
d. Career Seruice (Professional) Second Level
Etigibility.
Functions:
a. Formulates peacebuilding programs and projects
for Peace 911's focus areas;
b. Implements approved peace-building programs,
projects and activities (PPA's) and monitors the
progress of the said PPA's;
c. Evaluates the development of the implemented
plans, programs, and projects, and reports it to the
Officer-in-Charge;
d. Improves existing PPAs and execute it with better
program efficiency rate;
e. Collaborates with all the center's units, prepares
annual budgetary requirements and submit the
proposal to the Community Affairs Officer III;
f . Does other related functions as may be directed by
immediate superiors.
Qualifications:
a. Bachelor's degree relevant to the job;
b. No experience required;
c. No training required;
d. Career Seruice (Professional) Second Level
Eligibility.

Ord. No. 0873-22
Functions:
a. Provides assistance to the Development
Management Officer II in collaboration and
preparation of annual budgetary requirements;
b. Assists the Development Management Officer
II in formulating peace-building programs for
the office's focus areas;
c. Does other related functions as may be
directed by immediate superiors.
ect Evaluation Assistant
E. Regular Positions under the Research and Documentation SECTION
1. Development Management Officer II (SG-15)
Qualifications:
a. Bachelor's degree relevant to the job;
b. No experience required;
c. No training required;
d. Career Seruice (Professional) Second Level
Eligibility.
Functions:
a. Collaborates with government agencies, nongovernment and the private sector on
conducting research and documentations
about peace-building;
b. Manages records management and endorses
documents to proper offices or agencies for
action;
Qualifications:
a. Completion of two (2) years in college;
b. One (1) year of relevant experience required;
c. Four (4) hours of relevant training required;
d. Career Seruice (Sub-Professional) First Level
Eligibility.
Functions:
a. Provides suppoft in implementing approved
peace-building programs, projects and
activities (PPAs) and monitors its progress;
b. Conducts assessment of the implemented
plans, programs, and projects in the focus
areas and submits report to the Development
Management Officer for eval uation;
c. Does other related functions as may be
directed by immediate superiors.

c. Manages inventory of all office equipment and
ensure its good condition;
d. Documents lessons learned from peacebuilding
of local paftners;
e. Formulates and develops peacebuilding
practices and to incorporate the same into
training programs;
f. Does other functions as may be directed by
immediate su
Page 11 of t4'
Ord. No. 0873-22
2. Deve
nt Ma
Officer I
F. Regular Positions under the Partnership Management SECTION
1. Development Management Officer II (SG-15)
Qualifications:
a. Bachelor's degree relevant to the job;
b. No experience required;
c. No training required;
d. Career Seruice (Professional) Second Level
Eligibility.
Functions:
a. Provides assistance in collaborating with
government agencies, non-government and
private sector on the conduct of peace-building
research and documentations;
b. Provides suppoft on the documentation of
lessons learned from peacebuilding of local
partners;
c. Cooperates with the Project Evaluation Officer
II in formulating and developing peacebuilding
practices;
d. Does other functions as may be directed by
immediate superuisors.
Qualifications:
a. Bachelor's degree relevant to the job;
b. One (1) year of relevant experience required;
c. Four (4) hours of relevant training required;
d. Career Seruice (Professional) Second Level
Eligibility.
Functions:
a. Develops and strategizes community building
mechanisms for the sustainability of peace in
the focus areas of Peace 911-The Center for
Peacebuilding;

Page 12 of t4
Ord. No. 0873-22
b. Coordinates with relevant government
agencies, non-government organizations and
the private sector in converging all peace
effofts, ensuring there is no duplication of
projects implemented in a certain area;
c. Oversees all projects and activities
implemented in the center's focus areas and
monitors the said programs from time to time;
d. Submits consolidated repofts to the Officer-inCharge;
e. Plans cooperative problem-solving and
institutionalizes a response mechanism to violent
conflicts;
f. Supervises personnel under the unit;
g. Initially handles verified community concerns and
repots;
h. Does other functions as may be directed by
immediate superiors,
2. Develo
ent Man
Officer I
SG-11
Qualiflcations:
a. Bachelor's degree relevant to the job;
b. No experience required;
c. No training required;
d. Career Seruice (Professional) Second Level
Eligibility.
Functions:
a. Assists in developing and strategizing
community building mechanisms;
b. Assists in the development of community
building mechanisms for the sustainability of
peace in the focus areas of Peace 911-The
Center for Peacebuilding;
c. Assists in coordinating with government
agencies, non-government organizations and
private sector in converging all peace efforts,
ensuring there is no duplication of projects
implemented in a certain area;
d. Does other functions as may be directed by
immediate superiors.
Qualifications:
a. Completions of two (2) years in college;
b. One (1) year of relevant experience required;
c. Four (4) hours of relevant training required;
d. Career Seruice (Sub-Professional) First Level
Eligibility.
Evaluation Assistant
SG-B

Page 13 of L4
Ord. No. 0873-22
Functions:
a. Conducts timely visitation and interuiew to the
households and communities in the center's
focus areas, obtaining relevant information on
their concerns;
b. Verifies the information reported on the
offi ce's official hotlines;
c. Gathers issues and concerns pertaining to
infrastructure, water system, agriculture,
security, education and health on the assigned
areas, and collaborate with the proper
agencies/team for action;
d. Closely monitors areas especially those
identified as high-risk barangays where there
are presence of insurgents;
e. Submits weekly repoft;
t. Does other functions as may be directed by
immediate superiors.
SECTION 9. APPOINTMENT- The positions in Peace 911-The Center for
Peacebuilding shall be appointed by the City Mayor in accordance with the civil
service laws and rules on qualification standards which the appointee must posses as
set by the Civil Seruice Commission.
SECTION 10. HUMAN RESOURCE COMPLEMENT - The City Mayor shall
be allowed to employ emergency personnel or laborers needed by Peace 911-The
Center for Peacebuilding through Job Orders or Contract of Seruices based on the
availability of budget pursuant to SECTION 77 of R.A. 7160, otherwise known as the
Local Government Code of 1991, and subject to government rules and regulations on
budgeting, accounting and auditing.
SECTION 11. APPROPRIATION - The appropriation necessary for the
implementation of this Ordinance shall be included by the City Budget Officer in the
proposed Annual Budget of the Cifi Government.
SECTION 12. SEPARABILITY CLAUSE- If, for any reason or reasons, any
paft or provision of this Ordinance shall be held to be unconstitutional or invalid,
other parts or provisions thereof which are not affected shall continue to be in full
force and effect.
SECTION 13.
approval.
EFFECTMW - This Ordinance shall take effect upon its
ENACTED, February 02, 2022, by a unanimous vote of all the Members of
the Sanggunian, there being a quorum.

Ord. No. 0873-22
CERTIFIED CORRECT:
^ (ta;6'
CHAXITO N.
Secretary to the
iang Panlungsod
(City Government Depaftment nead tI)
ATTESTED:
EDGAR P.
R.
President Pro Tempore
Temporary Presiding Officer
cns/ser
ATTESTED:
SARA Z. DUTERTE
o Cibl Mayor ,
fr/
APPROVED
l,rA lt It
.l'll,R l8 20n
2022
SEBASTIAN Z. DUTERIE
Acting City Mayor
ATTY.
KAT
City Administrator ,
An Ordinance Creating Peace 911, the Center for Peacebuilding as a Division of the Office of the
City Mayor (CMO), Subject to All Laws and Existing Lega! Rules and Regulations