20th City Council
15th Regular Session
SERIES of 2A22
PRESENT:
Vice Mayor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Ofrice of the Sanggunaang Panlungsod
J. Melchor B. Quitain Jr.
- Presiding Officer
Marissa S. Abella
Nilo M. Abellera Jr.
Luna Maria Dominique S. Acosta
Bai Hundra Cassandra Dominique N. Advincula
Bernard E. Al-ag
Wilberto E. Al-ag
Al Ryan S. Alejandre
Dante L. Apostol Sr.
Conrado C. Baluran
Jessica M. Bonguyan
Louie John J. Bonguyan
Pilar C. Braga
Augusto Javier G. Campos III
Jonard C. Dayap
Edgar P. Ibuyan Jr.
Edgar R. Ibuyan Sr.
Rodolfo M. Mande
Jaffar U. Marohomsalic
Bonz Andre A. Militar
Temujin B. Ocampo
Myrna G. LDalodo-Oftiz
Alberto T. Ungab
Lorenzo Benjamin D. Villafuerte
Trisha Ann J. Villafuefte
Jesus Joseph P. Zozobrado III
ABSENT:
Councilor RichlynN.Justol-Baguilod
Councilor Diosdado Angelo Junior R. Mahipus
ORDINAilCE ilO. 04,3-22
SERIES of 2022
AN ORDINANCE CREATING THE PERSONS WITH
DTSABTLmES AFFATRS CENTER (PDAC) THE
PERSONS WITH DISABILMES AFFAIRS OFFICE
(PDAO) OF DAVAO CITY, AS A DMSION UNDER THE
CITY SOCIAT WELFARE AilD DEVELOPMENT OFFICE
(cswDo), DETERMTNTNG THErR DUTTES, POWERS,
AND FUNCTIONS
OB-Attended the Meeting of
the Local Health Board

Page 2 of L4
Ord. No. 043-22
Be it ordained by the Honorable SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod of Davao City, in session
assembled, that:
SECTION 1. IE'LE, - This Ordinance shall be titled as "An Oldinance Creating
the Percons with Disabilities Affairc Center (PDAC) - The Percons with
Disabilities Affairc Office (PDAO) of Davao City, as a Division under the City
Social Welfare and Development Office (CSWDO), Determining their Duties,
Powerc, and Functions".
SECTION 2. SHE.fIIE - This Ordinance shall be referred to as "An
Ordinance Creating the PDAC - PDAO DC'.
SECTION 3. DECTARATIOI{ OF PRINCIPLES AND POLICIES .
1. Pursuant to Republic Act No. 7160, otherwise known as the Local Govemment
Code of the Philippines of 1991, all programs and seMces of the Depailrnent of
Socia! Welfare and Development (DSWD) were tumed over to the Local
Government Units (LGUs). In rcsponse to the mandate, the City Government of
Davao formed the City Social Services and Development Office (CSSDO). It is the
social welfare arm of the City, mandated to provide basic social seruices to the
disadvantaged, depressed, opprssed, and exploited citizenry of the city. The
office was later named as City Social Welfare and Development ffice (CSWDO)
through an Ordinance. It provides comprehensive programs and seruices to
disadvantaged families and communities, promotion of the welfare of women,
pentuns with disbilitis, children and youth, and older persons to help them
become productive, self-reliant, and ultimately attain a better quality of life.
2. SECTION 1 (b) (1) of Republic Act No. 10070 entitled, "An Act Establishing an
Institutiona! Mechanism to Ensure the Implementation of Programs and Seruices
for Persons with Disabilities in Every Province, City and Municipality, Amending
Republic Act No. 7277, otherwise known as the "Magna Cafta for Disabled
Persons", states "A PDAO shall be created in every province, city and municipality.
The local chief o(ecutive shall appoint a PWD affairs officer who shall manage and
oversee the operations of the office, pursuant to its mandate under this Act.
Priority shall be given to qualified PWDs to head and man the said office in carrying
out the following functions: ......".
3. Title II of Republic Act No.7277 entitled, "An Act Providing for the Rehabilitation,
Self-Development and Self-Reliance on Disabled Person and their Integration into
the Mainstream of Society and for other purposes" states the rights and privileges
of each person encompassing employment, sheltered employment,
apprenticeship, incentives fur employer, vocational rehabilitaUon, guidance and
counseling, acceas to quality education, assistance to disabled students, special
education, non-formal education, vocational or technical and other ffaining
programs, political and civil rights, and other stated rights and privileges.
4. Rule IV of the Implementing Rules and Regulations of R.A. No. 10070 states the
establishment of Persons with Disability Affairs ffice and appointment of focal
persons.
5. Batas Pambansa Bilang 344 enUtled, "An Act to Enhance Mobility of Disabled
Persons by Requiring Ceftain Buildings, Institutions, Establishments and Public
Utilities to Instal! Facilities and Other Devices.", promotes the rights of persons
with disabilities.

Page 3 of L4
Ord. No. 043-22
6. Republic Act No. 11106 entitled,'An Act Declaring the Filipino Sign Language as
the National Sign Language of the Filipino Deaf and the Official Sign Language of
Government in all Transactions Involving The Deaf, And Mandating Its Use In
Schools, Broadcast Media, and Workplaces" states that "The State shall, in
compliance with the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with
Disabilities, promote, protect, and ensure the full and equal enjoyment of all
human rights and fundamental freedoms of persons with disabilities. Thus,
national and local Statu agenciu shall uphold respect for their inherent
dignity, individual autonomy, and independence by guaranteeing accessibility and
eliminating all forms of discriminaUon in all public interactions and transactions,
thereby ensuring their full and effective pafticipation and inclusion in society. The
State shall also take all appropriate measures to ensure that the Filipino deaf can
exercise the right to expression and opinion. Accordingly, the State recognizes and
promotes the use of sign languages embodying the specific cultural and linguistic
identity of the Filipino deaf'.
7. Executive Order 34, SERIES of 2014, was signed and approved by then City Mayor
Rodrigo R. Duterte establishing an Interim Persons with Disability Affairs Office in
the City of Davao.
8. The Civil Service Commission Omnibus Rules on Appointments and Other Human
Resource Actions is a consolidation of rules peftaining to appointments,
reassignment, separation, and other human resource actions in the civil service.
9. The Civil Seruice Commission Memorandum Circular No. 7, SERIES of 2018, states
the qualificaUon standards for Disability Affairs Positions in the Persons with
Disabilities Affairs Office in the Local Government Units.
10. Memorandum Circular 20t7-1L9, issued on September 13, 20L7, by the
Department of the Interior and Local Government states the guidelines for the
establishment of the Persons with Disabilities Affairs Office (PDAO) and the
conduct of the persons with disabilities general assembly.
11. Executive Order No. 33, SERIES of 20L1, was issued on April 5, 2011 transferring
the National Council on Disability Affairs (NCDA) from the Office of the President
to the Depaftment of Social Welfare and Development (DSWD).
SECTION 4.
-
Batas
Pambansa
Building 3tt4
An Act to Enhance Mobility of Disabled Persons by
Requiring Ceftain Buildings, Institutions,
Establishments and Public Utilities to Install
FaciliUes and Offier Devices
csc
Civil Service Commission
csc Mc
Civil Service Commission Memorandum Circular
CSC ORAOHRA
Civil Seruice Commission Omnibus Rules and
Offrer Human Resource Actions

Page 4 of t4
Ord. No. 043-22
cswDo
CiW Social Welfare and Development Office
DBM
Depaftnent of Budget and Management
DSWD
DeparUnent of Social Welfare and Development
E.O. 33 SERIES of
2OLl by the
President of the
Republic of the
Philippines
Executive Order No. 33, issued by the President
of the Republic of the Philippines, dated April 5,
20Lt, transfened the National Council on
Disability Affairs (NCDA) from the Office of the
President to the Depailrnent of Social Welfare
and Development (DSWD)
E.O. 34 SERIES of
2Ot4 by the City
Mayor of Davao
Executive Order Number 34, SERIES of 20L4,
entitled "An Order Creating An Interim Persons
with Disability Affairs Office (IPDAO), Defining
Its Functions and For Other Purposesi signed
and approved by then City Mayor Rodrigo R.
Duterte and released on July 21,20L4
IRR
Implementing Rules and Regulations
NCDA
National Council on Disability Affairs
PDAC
Percons with Disability Aftairs Center
PDAC-PDAO DC
Persons with Disability Affairs Center - The
Persons with Disability Aftairc Office of Davao
City
PDAO
Persons with Disability Affairs Office of Davao
City
PWD
Percons with DisabiliUes (PWD), as defined in
the IRR of R.A. 10070, include those who have
long-term physical, mental, intellectua! or
sensory impainnents which in interaction with
various barriers may hinder their full and
effiective participation in society on an equal
basis with others (UNCRPD Article 1)
QUALIFICATION
STANDARDS
Refer to minimum qualificaUons for a position
which shall include education, experience,
training, civil seryice eligibility and physical
characteristics and personality traits required by
the iob (IRR of R.A. No. 10070)
R.A. No. 7277
Republic Act Number 7277 entitled "An Act
Providing For The Rehabilitation, SelfDevelopment And Self-Reliance Of Disabled
Person And Their Integration Into The
Mainstream Of Society And For Other
Purposes", otherwise known as the "Magna
Carta for Disabled Persons"

Ord. No. 043-22
R.A. No. 10070
Republic Act Number 10070 entitled, "An Act
Establishing an Instttutional Mechanisrn to Ensure
the Implementation of Programs and Seruices for
Persons With Disabilities in Every Province, City
and Municipality, Amending Republic Act No.
7277, Otherwise Known as the "Magna Cafta for
Disabled Persons"
UNCRPD
United Nations Convention on the Rights of
Persons with Disabilities (UNCRPD) is an
internaUonal human rights convention which sets
out the human rights of people with disability
SECTION 5.
CENTER - THE PERSOilS WITH DISABILMES AFFAIRS OFFICE OF DAVAO
CITY (PDAC-PDAO DC) - The "Persons with Disabilities Afrirs Center - The Persons
with Disabilities Affairs ffice of Davao City" shall be created as a division under the City
Social Welfare and Development Office (CSWDO). The new division shall be referred to
as "Persons with Disabilities Affairs Center (PDAC)".
A. The PDAC shall be created as a division of the City Socia!
Welfare and Development Office (CSWDO).
B. The Division shal! be headed by a Disability Affairc Officer IV
with Salary Grade 22.
C. The Division shall have an Assistant Division Head with the
position title of Disability Affairc Officer III with Salary
Grade 18.
D. The Division shall have the following sections:
1. Operations SECTION; and
2. Promotive SECTION.
SECTION 6. POWERS, DUTIES AilD FUNCTIONS OF PDAC.PDAO DC AS A
DIVISIOil OF THE CITY SOCIAL WELFARE Al{D DEVETOPMEilT OFFICE - As
stated in SECTION 9 of the Implementing Rules and Regulations (IRR) of Republic Act
Number 10070, the division shall have the following functions:
A. Formulate and implement policies, plans and programs for the promotion of
the welfare of persons with disabilities in coordination with concerned
national and local government agencies;
B. Coordinate and implement the provisions of RA No. 10070, Batas Pambansa
Bldg.344, otherwise known as the Accessibility Law, and other relevant laws
at the local level;
C. Represent persons with disabilities in meetings of local development councils
and other special bodies;
D. Recommend and enjoin the pafticipation of Non-Government Organizations
(NGOs) and Peoples Organizations (POs) in the implementation of all
disability-related laws and policies;
E. Gather and compile relevant data on persons with disabilities in their localities;

Ord. No. 043-22
F. Disseminate information including, but not limited to, programs and activities
for persons with disabilities, statistics on persons with disabilities, including
children with disability, and training and employment oppoftunities for persons
with disabilities;
G. Submit reports to the office of their respective governor or city/municipal
mayor on the implementation of programs and services for the promotion of
the welfare of persons with disabilities in their respective areas of jurisdiction;
H. Ensure that policies, plans and programs for the promotion of the welfare of
persons with disabilities are funded by both the national and local government;
I. Monitor fundraising activities being conducted for the benefit of persons with
disabilities;
J. Seek donations in cash or in kind from local or foreign donors to implement an
approved work plan for persons with disabilities, in accordance with existing
laws and regulations; and
K. Pedorm such other functions as may be necessary for the promotion and
protection of the welfare of persons with disabilities.
SECTION 7.
- The duties and
functions of the Operations SECTION, and the Promotive SECTION shall be in accordance to
the duties and functions of the division.
A. Operations SECTION
1. Gathers and compiles relevant data on PWDs in the localities;
2. Manages registration and issuances of PWD IDs;
3. Facilitates Data related to request for PWDs;
4. Performs other functions as directed.
B. Promotive SECTION
1. Coordinates the implementation of the provisions of R.A. 10070, R.A.7277;
Batas Pambansa Blg.344 and other relevant laws;
2. Monitors and evaluates the implementation of projects, programs and
activities, and all PWD Data of the division;
3. Conducts trainings and seminars to all barangay personnel and other
stakeholders to improve seryice delivery to PWD clients;
4. Monitors and evaluates the implementation on the provision of assistive devices
to PWDs;
5. Implements paftnership projects and engagement with local stakeholders,
tapping their programs/seruices and promotions for disability-inclusive use of
loca! resources;
6. Disseminates information including, but not limited to, programs and activities
for PWDs, statistics on PWDs, including children with disability, and training
and employment opportunities for PWDs;
7. Monitors Barangay-based PWD associations and/or their parents, self-help
groups, and PWD individuals and group enterprises, pursuant to national and
local laws;
B. Coordinates with Barangay-based public and private faciliUes/utilities;
9. Develops comprehensive Community-Based Rehabilitation program and
promotes disability awareness, improvement of the well-being of PWDs,
d isa bi I ity-i ncl usive and accessi ble environment faci lities a nd services;

Ord. No. 043-22
l0.Formulates designs and strategies for the promoUon of the disability
awareness, improvement of PWD's well-being in tenns of livelihood and
employment, health, education, arts, and civic and poliUcal rights, disabilityinclusive and accessible environment facilities and services;
ll.Performs other functions as directed.
SECTION 8. CREATION OF REGULAR POSITIONS IN THE PDAC.PDAO DC
AS A DMSIOII OF CSWDO - Pursuant to the ImplemenUng Rules and Regulations of
Republic Act No. 10070 and all issuances of the Civil Service Commission, the following
regular positions (Plantilla Positions) shall be created:
A. Division Head
Position Title
Salary Grade
Number of
pensons
Disability Afrirs Officer IV
B. Assistant Division Head
Position Title
Salary Grade
Number of
persons
Disability Affairc Officer III
C. Administrative staff of the Division
D
r
of the
SECTION
E
r
of the Promotive SECTION:
Total Number of Reqular Positions =
SECTIOil 9. DUTIES AilD RESFO]ISIBILITIES OF THE HEAD OF PDACPDAO DC - The duties and rcsponsibilities of the head of the division as stated in SECTION
B of the Implementing Rules and RegulaUons of Republic Act No. 10070 (IRR of R.A. No.
10070) are as follows:
Position Title
Salary Grade
Number of
percons
Disability Afrirc Officer I
Disability Afh irs Assistant
B
Position Title
Salary Grade
Number of
perlsons
DisabiliU Affairs Officer II
Disability Aff'airs Officer I
Disa bility Affiairs Assistant
Position Title
Salary Grade
Number of
pen3ons
Disability Afrirs Officer II
Disability Affairs Officer I
DisabiliW Affairs Assistant
I

Page 8 of L4
Ord. No. 043-22
A. Manages and oversees the efficient operation of the Persons with Disability Affairs
Office and general superuision of its personnel;
B. Develops, promotes and monitors the implementation of policies, plans, programs
and services for the development of persons with disabilities, in coordination with
national and local government agencies;
C. Ensures representation of persons with disabilities in the Iocal development
councils and other special bodies;
D. Builds the capacity of non-government organizaUons and people's organizations to
pafticipate in the implementation of all disability related laws and policies;
E. Establishes coordination with the city and ensures the inclusion of disability
concerns in all local government programs and services;
F. Networks with local, national and international organizations and establishes
paftnership on disability programs and resource mobilizations;
G. Develops and submits to the concerned city mayor an Annual Work and Financial
Plan;
H. Performs such other functions as may be necessary for the promotion and
protection of the welfare of PWDs.
SECTIOil 10. DUTIES AI{D RESPONSIBILMES OF THE ASSISTANT HEAD
OF PDAC-PDAO DC - The duties and responsibilities of the assistant division head are
as follows:
A. Acts and peforms the duties and functions of the head of the division in his/her
absence;
B. Assists the Division Head whenever necessary and as approved by the division
head;
C. Directly supervises all the administrative functions of the division;
D. Assists in the promotion and protection of the welfare of PWDs;
E. Pedorms such other functions as may be necessary for the promotion and
protection of the welfare of PWDs.
SECTION 11. APPOINTI,IEI{T AND OUAUEICATION - The positions in the
division shall be appointed by the City Mayor, in accordance with Civil Service laws and
rules that the appointee shall have met the qualificaUon standards set by the Civil Seruice
Commission, CSC ORAOHRA, issuances by the Depaftment of Budget and Management,
and pursuant to R.A. No. 10070 and R.A. No.72T7 and other peftinent laws, rules, and
regulations.
A. The qualification standards for the positions in the division as stated in the IRR of
R.A. No. 10070, Civil Seruice C,ommission Memorandum Circulars, DBM Index of
Occupational Seruices, OccupationalGroups, Classes, and Salary Grades, and DBM
Local Budget Circular are as follows:
Position
Title
Education
Experience
Training
Eligibility
Disability
Affairs
Officer IV
SG-22
Bachelo/s
Degree
3 years of
relevant
experience on
disability
affairs
16 hours of relevant
training on disability
affairs
Career
Seruice
ProfessionaU
Second Level
Elisibility

Ord. No. 043-22
B. Depaftment of the Interior and Local Government Memorandum Circular No. 2017119 issued on September 13, 2019 entiUed, "Guidelines for the Establishment of
Persons with Disabilities Affairs Office (PDAO) and the Conduct of the Persons with
Disabilities General Assembly" states the guidelines in hiring personnel for the
PDAO;
C. Sections 10, LL, L2, L3, L4 and 15 of the IRR of R.A. No. 10070 state the hiring
rules and procedures for PDAC-PDAO DC.
SECTIOI{ 12. MAIIPOWER COMPLEITIENT - The City Mayor shall be allowed
to hire additional workers for the division as emergency, casual or contractual employees,
pursuant to SECTION 77 of the Local Government Code of 1991, Republic Act No. 7277,
Republic Act No. 10070, and other peftinent laws.
SECTION 13. FUNCTIOilS OF REGULAR POSITIONS IN PDAC.PDAO DC
- The regular positions in the PDAC-PDAO DC shall perfurm the following functions:
A. Administrative Staff
POSITION TITLE
FUNCTIONS
l.Disability Afrirs Officer I
a. Serues as interpreter for persons with
disabilities on legal and/or
admin istrative proceed i ngs;
b. Translates spoken/written communication
of hearing/visually impaired through sign
language or any other methods acceptable
to be used in any proceedings;
c. Prepares communications relative to
the operation of the division for
approval of the Division Head; and
d. Pedorms other related tasks as may be
assigned by the superuisors.
Disability
Affairs Officer
III SG-18
Bachelor's
Degree
2 years of
relevant
experience on
disability
affairs
8 hours of relevant
training on
disabillty affiirs
Career
Seruice
ProfessionaU
Second level
Elisibility
Disability
Affairs Officer
II SG.15
Bachelor's
Degree
1 year of
relevant
experience on
disability
affairc
4 hours of relevant
training
on
disability affiairs
Career
Seruice
Professional/
Second Leve!
EliqibiliW
Disability
Affairs Officer I
SG.11
Bachelot,s
Degree
None required
None required
Career
Service
Professional/
Second Level
Eliqibility
Disability
Affairs
Assistant SG-8
1 year of
relevant
experience on
disability
affairs
4 hours of relevant
training
Career
Seruice SubProfessional/
First Level
Eliqibility
Completion
of 2 years in
College

Page 10 of L4
Ord. No. 043-22
2. Disability Affairs Assistant
a. Pefforms general office duties such as,
doing frontline seryices to clients,
receiving, recording, releasing and
sorting of all official documents, mails,
etc. and answering/making official
phone calls;
b. Prepares draft of routine official letters
and endorsements; prepare official
correspondence upon oral or written
instructions of superiors; and
c. Performs other related tasks as may be
assigned by the superuisors.
B. Positions in the
POSITION TITLE
FUNCTIONS
1. Disability Affairs fficer II
a. Superuises the implementaUon of
functions of the Operations SECTION of
the Center and the staff;
b. Supervises the development of
systems and procedures in the
implementation of programs and
projects and recommends the same to
the Division Chief fur evaluation and
approval;
c. Superuises the processing of all
documents submitted by the
Promotive SECTION during the conduct
of PWD profiling for data and
reference purposes;
d. Compiles PWD data through the use
of standard methods of storing data,
including the digitization of data in aid
of delivery of health, social and other
services that the city may offer; and
e. Performs other related tasks as may be
assigned by the superuisors.
2. Disability Afihirs Officer I
a. Under superuision from the SECTION
Chief, prepares draft, policies and
guidelines on the implementation of
programs/projects of the division;
b. Facilitates registration of PWD and
issuances of PWD related requests;
c. Gathers and compiles data submitted
by the Promotive SECTION for encoding
and storage;
d. Provides electronic data for reference
as requesGd by other offices/agencies
in accordance with the guidelines of
the Data Privacy Act;
e. Compiles data through the use of
standard methods of storing data; and
f. Peforms other related tasks as may
be assigned by the superuisors.
SECTION

Ord. No. 043-22
3. Disability Afrirs Assistant
a. Performs administrative and other
support seryices to the division;
b. Encodes data and other documents
relative to data profiling of PWDs in
the diffierent barangays/districts using
the electronic system available;
c. Assists in receiving/releasing requests
of walk-in PWD clients;
d. Assists in the registration of and
issuances of PWD IDs and other
related requests;
e. Prepares statistical data using
applicable sofluare;
f. Assists in the conduct of PWD profiling
for data gathering purposes and
compilation of the same through the
use of standard methods of data
conseruation, including digitization of
datl; and
g. Perfurms other rclated tasks as may
be assigned by the superuisors.
C. Positions in the PromoUve SECTION
POSITION TITLE
FUNCTIOilS
1. Disability AfFairs Officer II
a. Superuises and implements the
functions of the Promotive SECTION of
the Center and its statr;
b. Conducts information dissemination
(disability awarcness, improvements of
well-being, barangay empowerment,
etc.) through different platfonns to be
able to reach out to PWDs in the
delivery of services all for the welfare
of PWDs;
c. ConducE various district activities to all
barangay personnel and other
stakeholders to improve delivery of
seruices to PWD clients;
d. Monitors barangay-based PWD
associations, self-help groups, PWD
family members and such other
individuals relative to
the
implementation of PWD laws;
e. Implements $e policies, designs and
strategies fonnulated by the division
for the promotion of PWD well-being,
such ds, but not limited to, giving
assistance to livelihood, employment,
health, education, arts, etc; and
f. Performs other related tasks as may be
assigned by the superuisors.

(
Page 12 of L4
Ord. No. 043-22
2. Disability Affairs Officer I
a. Under the superuision of the SECTION
Chief, prepares drafts policies and
guidelines on the implementation of
prog rams/projects of the division ;
b. Under supervision, conducts the
following:
1. Trainings and seminars relative to
PWDs
2. Information disseminaUon (disability
awareness, improvements of wel!-
being, barangay empowerment,
FGDs, values orientation, etc.)
through different platforms to be
able to reach out to PWDs in the
delivery of seruices all fur the welfare
of PWDs;
c. CoordinaUon with other agencies,
barangays and various groups in the
implementation of programs and
projects;
d. Conducts PWD profiling for data
purposes and compilation of the same
through the use of standard methods
of storing data, including digitization of
data;
e. Collects data of all PWDs in the
districts/barangays and submits the
same to the Operations SECTION for
encoding in the database system; and
t. Peforms other related tasks as may be
assigned by the superuisors.
3. Disability Affairs Assistant
a. Performs administrative and other
suppoft services to the division;
b. Prepares training and information
dissemination paraphernalia;
c. Prepares statistical data using
applicable software;
d. Assists in the conduct of PWD profiling
for data gathering purposes and
compilation of the same, through the
use of standard methods of data
conservation, including digitization of
data; and
e. Pefforms other related tasks as may be
assigned by the supervisors.

Ord. No. A$-22
4. Disability Affairs Assistant
(For each Congressional District - 1't,
2nd and 3d )
a. Serues as interpreter for
percons with disabilities during
disBict seminars, speeches,
meetings, teleconferences, and
symposia, by using the
appropriate methods of
communications such ds, but
not limited to, sign language,
reading, writing, etc.;
b. Translate spoken/written
communication to sign language
for hearing and visually
impa ired audience/cl ients;
c. Transcribes minutes of
meetings and other documents
in specified language for
documentary purposes;
d. Compiles transcribed minutes of
meetings and other translated
materials for frrture references;
and
e. Performs other related tasks as
may be assigned by the
superuisors.
SECTION 14. SPECIFIC FUI{CTIONS OF CERTAIN POSITIONS FOR SIGN
LANGUAGE TRANSLATION At{D IilTERPRETATION - The City Government of
Davao recognizes and promotes the use of sign languages embodying the specific cultural
and linguistic identity of the deaf and mute in the city:
A. At least one (1) Disability Affairs Officer I (DAO I) in the Administrative Staff of
PDAC - PDAO DC shall be able to translate and interpret sign languages;
B. At least three (3) Disability Affairs Asistant (DAA) of the Promotive SECTION of
PDAO - PDAC DC shall be able to translate and interpret sign languages;
C. At least one (1) regular personnel shall be assigned in each congressional district
of the city to translate and interpret sign languages.
SECTION 15. APPROPRHTION - The City Government of Davao shall ensure
the appropriation of funds for the "Persons with Disability Affairs Center - The Persons
with Disability Affairs Office of Davao City" as required under Republic Act No. 10070.
A. SECTION L7 of the IRR of Republic Act No. 10070 states:
"The DSWD as the ex-officio Chair of the NCDA shal! encourage all national
government agencies to include in their annual budget the provision of funds for
programs and seruices fur persons with disabilities in accordance with their
mandates and in accordance with the General Appropriations Act, a poftion from
the five percent (5olo) of Gender and Development budget and ftom the Internal
Revenue Allotnent for local govemment units shall be allocated for the
i m p I eme ntatio n of PDAO prog ra ms/projects/activiUes.';

Page 14 of t4
Ord. No. 043-22
B. SECTION 18 of the Implementing Rules and Regulations (IRR) of R.A. No. 10070
states:
"The governor/city/municipal mayor shall ensure that the necessary funds are
allocated for the implementation of this IRR for the benefit of persons with
disabilities in their jurisdiction";
C. Sections 14, t7, L9,25, and 27 of Republic Act No. 7277 state the different
appropriation of funds allowed from the national government and local
government.
SECTION 16. REPEALING CLAUSE - All orderc, rules and regulations,
issuances or any part thereof inconsistent with the provisions of this Ordinance are hereby
repealed, amended or modified accordingly.
SECTIOI{ 17. W
- If any SECTION or paft of this Ordinance
is held unconstitutional or invalid, the other sections or provisions not otherwise affected
shall remain in full furce or effect.
sEcrroil 18.
approval.
- This Ordinance shall take effect upon its
ENACTED, on the l8s day of October 2022, by a unanimous vote of all the
Members of the Sanggunian, there being a quorum.
CERTIFIED CORRECT:
^ 01116 |
CHARITO ]T]
Secretary to the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod
(City Govemment Depaffnent Head IIL
ATTESTED:
ATTESTED:
bl
tcHoR B. QUrTAril tR"
ftin Mayor
J. ME
Presiding Officer
cns/kjtq
-rr,J so
JAN 3 0.
APPROVED:
SE
2022
Z. DUTERTE
ATTY.
H. LAYOG
Acting
istrator
AN ORDINANCE CREATTNG THE PERSONS Wrn-r DISABILIflES AFFAIRS CENTER (PDAC) - THE PERSONS WITH
DISABILITIES AFFAIRS OFFICE (PDAO) OF DAVAO C[TY, AS A DryISION UNDER THE CITY SOCI.AL WELFARE AND
DEVELOPMENT OFFICE (CSWDO), DETERMINING THEIR DUTIES, POWERS, AND FUNCTIONS
\'1A