Republic of the Philippines'
Gty of Davao
19u'CiW Council
th Regular Session
SERIES of 2022
PRESENT:
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
C.ouncilor
Councilor
C,ouncilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
C,ouncilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
C,ouncilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
C.ouncilor
Councilor
Councilor
ABSENT:
Vice Mayor SebastianZ. Dutefte
Councilor Pamela A. Librado-Morata
Councilor Bonifacio E. Militar
Edgar P. Ibuyan Jr.
- Temporary Presiding Officer
Ralph O. Abella
Nilo D. Abellera
Bai Hundra Cassandra Dominique N. Advincula
Wilbefto E. Al-ag
Dante L. Apostol Sr.
Conrado C. Baluran
lessica M. Bonguyan
Louie John l. Bonguyan
Pilar C. Braga
Augusto Javier G. Campos III
Danilo C. Dayanghirang
Jonard C. Dayap
Edgar R. Ibuyan Sr.
Richlyn N. Justol-Baguilod
Diosdado Angelo Junior R. Mahipus
Rodolfo M. Mande
Jaffar U. Marohomsalic
Myrna G. L'Dalodo-Ortiz
Antoinette G. Principe-Castrodes
J. Melchor B. Quitain Jr.
Albefto T. Ungab
Mary Joselle D. Villafuefte
Jesus Joseph P. Zozobrado III
- On Official Business
- On Domestic Emergency Leave
- On Sick Leave
ORDINANCE NO. 0897-22
SERIES of 2022
AN ORDTNAI{CE AMENDING ORDTNANCE 0384-10, SERIES OF
2010, oTHERWISE KNOWN AS *ORGANTC AGRTCULTURE
ORDINANCE OF DAVAO CITY 2010"

Ord. No. A897-22
CHAPTER 1: GENERAL PRINCIPLES
SECTION 1. TITLE This Ordinance shall be known and cited as "Amended
Organic Agriculture Ordinance of Davao City".
SECTION Z. DECLARATION OF POLICY It is the duty of the Local
Government Unit of Davao City to protect life and advance the rights of all citizens to
food sufficiency, sovereignty and safety, sustainable Iivelihood and social equity in
accord with the rhythm and harmony of nature. Toward this end, the local government
shall mainstream organic agriculture as a main agricultural practice in Davao City;
SECTION 3. DECLARATION OF PRINCIPLES The practice of organic
agriculture shall adhere to the following principles to guide the implementation of this
Ordinance:
a. The promotion, enhancement, and the conseruation and sustainable use
of agricultural biodiversity shall prevail over any other activities in
agricultural sector;
b. The empowerment of small and marginalized farmers especially in terms
of information on different alternative agricultural technologies, product
value and fair market trade with access or linkage to the countryside is a
priority;
c The empowerment of all smal! and marginalized farmers in the
agricultural areas of the City is a priority which will include value chain for
organic agricultural products;
d The implementation of a strategy for mitigation and adaptation to
climate change is an urgent policy that needs to be integrated in all
sectoral policies;
e While uniffing the initiatives and effort of all government agencies and
instrumentalities in agriculture, the enhancement of the City's povefi
reduction strategy should not be lost in sight;
f. Organic agriculture is a contributor to the City's economy and the
attainment of food security, ecological sustainability and well-being of the
people of Davao City;
g. Organic agriculture cannot co exist with genetically-modified crops,
chemically produced crops and related organism both living and non-living;
h The integrity of organic product through the approved organic
certification process and organic production handling and processing
standards should be ensured;

Ord. No. 0897-22
SECTION 4. DEFINITION OF TERMS As used in this Ordinance the
following terms shall mean:
a. Accreditation - it is a procedure by which a government agenry, having
jurisdiction, formally recognizes the competence of an Organic Ceftiffing
Board (OCB) to provide inspection and ceftification seruices This shall be
solely and exclusively exercised by the designated agency or agencies;
b. BAFS Bureau of Agriculture and Fisheries Standards;
c. Biopesticides - are naturally occurring substances and microorganisms
that control pests;
d. Biodegradable Wastes - refer to organic matter for compos|6rganic
fertilizer for the organic cultivation, farming of food crops and include
discards segregated farm nonbiodegradable wastes coming from the
kitchenzhousehold (leftovers, vegetables and fruit peelings and trims,
fish/bwl cleanings, seeds, bones, soft paper used as food wrap and the
like), yard or garden (leaves, grasses, weeds and twigs), market (wilted,
decayed or rotten vegetables and fruits fishzfowl cleanings, bones) and
farm wastes (grass clippings, dead or decayed plants, leaves, fruits,
vegetables, branches, twigs and the like);
e. Buffer Zones are defined areas on the boundary of an organic farm
that has land use controls and allow only activities compatible with the
protection of the organic farm It serues as a barrier that surrounds or
separates an organic farm from other traditional or conventional farms
where plants are not designated as organic. The area of the buffer zones
shall be determined in the Implementing Rules and Regulations depending
on the total situation on the ground;
f. Ceftification it is the procedure by which a government agency or an
officially accredited Organic Certiffing Board (OCB) provides written or
equivalent assurance that farms or production and processing systems,
conform to organic standards as mandated in this Ordinance
g. Certification Mark - refers to a certification's sign, symbol or seal that
identifies product or products as being certified in accordance with the
standards of a certification body and approved by the accredited Organic
Certiffing Board (OCB);
h. Backyard Compost Site - means a site Iocated within a property not
greater than 3 square meters used to compost food scraps garden wastes
weeds, lawn cuttings leaves and pruning from a single family or household
with the intention of using compost produced on site.
i. Consumer Groups - are organized consumer groups patronizing and
advocating organic products;

Ord. No.0B97-22
j. Conversion Period - refers to the time between the staft of the organic
management and the ceftification of crops, animal husbandry or
aquaculture products as organic;
k Commingling - to mix or mingle together or to combine; an intentional or
unintentional mixing together or the physical contact between organic
products and non organic products which are unpackaged or permeably
packaged, which leads to a loss of integrity of the organic product during
production, processing, transpoftation, storage, or handling.
I. Genetically Modified Crops - Genetically Modified Crops (GM crops) are
plants used in agriculture the DNA of which has been modified using
genetic engineering methods.
m. Genetically Engineeredzfvlodified Organisms (GEOEMOS) - are
organisms made with techniques that alter the molecular or cell biology of
an organism by means not possible under natural conditions or processes.
Genetic engineering includes recombinant DNA, cell fusion, micro- and
macro- encapsulation gene deletion and doubling, introducing a fore[gn
gene, and changing the positions of genes. It shall not include breeding,
conjugation, fermentation, hybridization, in-vitro fertilization, and tissue
culture;
n. Grocery Stores specialize in the selling of food both fresh and pre
packaged, as well as non-food household goods. Typical grocery stores sell
fresh produce meats, dairy products and often, bakery goods alongside
canned, frozen and prepared foods In addition, a grocery store will also
sell a full range of household healthcare and personal care items.
o. Inspection is the examination of farms, food and non-food process,
food control systems, raw materials, processing, distribution and retailing,
including in process and finished product testing in order to veriff that
they conform to the requirements for being organic. Inspection includes
examination of the production and processing systems;
p. Organic - refers to a pafticular farming and processing system described
in the standards and not in the classical chemical sense. The term "organic"
is synonymous in other languages to "biological" or "ecological". It is also a
labeling term that denotes products considered organic based on the
Philippine National Standards for organic agriculture.
q. Organic agriculture - includes all agricultural systems that promote an
ecologically sound, socially acceptable, economically viable and technically
feasible production of food and fibers. Organic agricultural dramatically
reduces external inputs by refraining from the use of chemical feftilizers,
pesticides and pharmaceuticals. It also covers areas such as, but not
limited to, soil fertility management varietal breeding and selection under
chemical and pesticide-free conditions, the use of biotechnology and other
cultural practices that are consistent with the principles and policies of this
Act and enhance productivity without destroying the soil and harming

Ord. No. 0897-22
farmers, consumers and the environment as defined by the International
Federation of Organic Agricultural Movement (IFOAM): Provided that
biotechnology herein referred to shall not include Genetically Modified
Organisms or GMOS.
r. Organic Center - is a center with the following goals:
1. Establish a strategic venue for consumer education information
and communication for a sustainable healthy lifestyle;
2. Design as a showcase for organic products and farm technologies;
3 Develop holistic and sustainable technology training programs;
4. Formulate farm-based farmer coordinated applied research
program and
5. Promote environmental economic values in enterprise
development;
s. Organic Agricultural Zone - areas of agricultural land that are farmed
cultivated and maintained solely for organic agriculture and farming. (n)
t. Organic Certiffing Body (OCB) refers to a legal entity accredited by a
government agency to perform inspection and certification activities. It is
responsible for veriffing that a product sold or labeled as "organic" is
produced, processed, prepared or handled according to relevant guidelines.
(n)
u. Organic Inputs The resources that are used in farm production, such as
feeds, feedstufts, seeds, organic fertilizers, organic pesticides, fungicide
and energy exclusive of chemical inputs.
v. Organic Material - yard waste, food scraps and compostable materials
and ingredients
w. Organic SECTION sections in markets or supermarkets, private or public,
that is exclusively allocated to display organic produce.
x. Organic Value Chain - refers to agriculture - related activities that put
farmers, processors, distributors and consumers within a system that
produces, processes, transpofts, markets and distributes organic products.
y. Participatory Guarantee Systems (PGS) - are locally focused quality
assurance system that ceftifies the practice of organic agriculture. The
certification is based on the active participation of producers and farmers in
the practice of agriculture built on foundation of trust, social networks and
knowledge exchange. (n)
z. PGS Group - is a legal association or cooperative of registered farmer
members and other stakeholders in a pafticipatory guarantee system. (n)

Ord. No. AB97-22
aa. Pafticipatory Organic Ceftificate - is a documentary proof that a core
PGS group is compliant with the requirements, standards and norms of
organic agriculture. It shall be issued by a government agency or by an
authorized Organic Ceftiffing Body after the conduct of an investigation
and certification activity on the application for certification by the core PGS
group. It shall be valid for a period of three (3) years from the date of
issuance. (n)
bb. Small And Marginalized Farmers (SMF) - refers to those utilizing not
more than five (5) hectares of land for the single purpose of, or a
combination of the following purposes for agricultural crop production,
including rice and corn, aquaculture, and poultry/livestock raising:
Provided, that poultry/ivestock raising shall not have more than the
following:
1. Poultry 1,000 poultry layers or 5,000 broilers.
2 Swine/native pigs 10 sow level or 20 fatteners
3. Cattle - 10 fatteners or 5 breeders.
4. Dairy - 10 milkitgcows.
5 Goat sheep and other small ruminants - 50 heads
6 Other animals permitted to be raised, the limits of which
are to be determined by the National Organic Agriculture
Board (NOAB).(n)
cc. Supermarkets - a selling area between 400 square meters and 2,500
square meters, at least 70 percent of which is devoted to food and
everyday goods. Mostly located inside shopping malls, depaftment stores,
or within a commercial complex.
CHAPTER 2: STRATEGIES
SECTION 5. ORGANIC AGRICULTURAL AREAS. Upon effectivity of this
Ordinance any areas that are being used and cultivated for organic agriculture may
remain the same subject to any Iimitation prescribed by laws and other statutes.
SECTION 6, ORGANIC CENTERS. - The City Government of Davao, through
the City Agriculturist's Office and the City Veterinarian's Office, shall establish recognize
and suppoft Organic Centers including those initiated by the private sector that will
promote, market, and develop organic agriculture.
Grocery stores, supermarkets and similar establishments shal! allocate and
designate separate areas or organic sections solely dedicated for the display of organic
fruits. vegetables, poultry, livestock products or by products, seafood products and
other processed organic products. (n)

Ord. No. AB97-22
The City shall continue to collaborate, encourage and support the participation
of the private sector in the promotion, development and implementation of organic
agriculture, from farm production through marketing, trade and consumption. (n)
SECTION 7, CONSERVATION OF TNDIGENOUS FARM PRACTICES
Measures shall be established by the farming communities including indigenous
people's communities, to conserve and protect indigenous knowledge relating to
organic agriculture, including those that relate to seed conseruation and propagation
and various ways in which on farm and ex situs (outside) mechanisms are established
and sustained
SECTION 8. CONVERSION OF PRIOR AGRICULTURAL LAND TO
ORGANIC FARMING The City Government of Davao, shall formulate directives for
the conversion of prior agricultural land to organic farming and allocation of at least five
(0.5) o/o annually of the total agricultural land for organic farming. (n)
SECTION 9. ORGANIC GENEISEED BANK. - The City Government of Davao
through the City Agriculturist's Office and City Veterinarian's Office, in coordination with
Non Government Organizations (NGOs), international organizations and other
appropriate agencies, shall establish and fund an Organic Seed or Gene Bank which will
produce and supply organic, feeds and feedstuffs endemic or indlgenous seeds to
farmers,
SECTION 10 PROHIBITION ON RECLASSIFICATION OF ORGANIC
ZONES - Those identified organic zones shall be reclassified under the protected area
of the Agricultural sub zones.
SECTION 11. SUPPORT SERVICE TO ORGANIC FARMERS. The City
Government of Davao shall ensure support to organic farmers who wish to engage
in organic agriculture, such as training, production marketing and branding, including
financial management and accounting among other necessary skills, to develop an
organic agriculture product that will secure a market niche, including the practice of fair
trade.
Support seruices shall also be primarily extended to small and marginalized
farmers and women's groups including the promotion, enhancement and fulfillment of
their rights as defined in national laws.
SECTION 12. ACCESS TO CREDIT FOR SMALL AND ORGANIC FARMERS.
- Small and organic farmers through the assistance of the City Agriculturist's Office and
the City Veterinarian's Office, shall have access to credit facility and financial seruices
through organized groups of small farmers preferably those cooperatives registered
with the City Cooperative Development Office. (IRR)
SECTION 13. BIOLOGICAL AND BOTANICAL CONTROL Organic Farmers
shall practice and utilize biological and botanical methods which relies on
predation, parasitism herbivory or other natural mechanisms in the control of pests and
diseases in their organic farm.

Ord. No. 897-27
The City Government of Davao shall provide suppoft to the Research Division of
the City Agriculturist's Office and the City Veterinarian's Office for the research and
development of biological and botanical control.
CHAPTER THREE: IMPLEMENTATION MECHANISMS
SECTION 14. ORGANIC AGRICULTU
- The City
Government of Davao through the City Agriculturist's Office, ffioy create and organize
the Organic Agriculture Division (ORAD) which shall be under its exclusive jurisdiction
The ORAD shall insure the implementation of this Ordinance guided by the principles of
organic value chain(n). It shall ensure the marketing of organic products by providing
centers for selling, transpoft and other necessary seruices. It shall also ensure that
organic products have ceftified organic branding in accordance with the Philippine
National Standards. (n)
An Organic SECTION under the City Veterinarian's Office shall likewise be created
for the implementation of this Ordinance
The composition of the organization in the division and SECTION shall be defined
in the Implementing Rules and Regulations (IRR) upon the recommendation of the
Organic Agriculture Management Council
SECTION 15. ORGANIC AGRICULTURE MANAGEMENT COUNCIL The
City Government shall institute the formation of Organic Agriculture Management
Council chaired by the City Mayor with the City Agriculturist's Office as the Vice-Chair
which will assist in the implementation of the Ordinance and in the formulation of an
Organic Agriculture Plan for Davao City The members shall be provided for in the
Implementing Rules and Regulations, in accordance with Republic Act No. 11511.
SECTION 16. PARTICIPATORY GUARANTEE SYSTEM The Pafticipatory
Guarantee System (PGS) shall be the principal and primary mechanism by which smal!
farmers, fishefolks, their farms, associations and cooperatives shall be certified as
engaged in organic agriculture and as producers of organic products or engaged in
organic agriculture and as producers of organic agricultural products. The products
ceftified through the Pafticipatory Guarantee Systems (PGS) shall be traded only in the
domestic market. unless covered by an international ceftification or a mutual
recognition agreement under any reciprocity agreement. (n)
SECTION 17. PARTICTPATORY ORGANIC CERTIFICATE The farm or
farm owner shall apply for a participatory organic ceftificate with a core Pafticipatory
Guarantee Systems (PGS) group where the farm belongs or with the City Agriculturist's
Office. The Pafticipatory Organic Ceftificate shall be valid for a period of three (3)
years and renewable upon application of a member of the core of Pafticipatory
Guarantee Systems (PGS) group representing a farm.
A farm owner applying for certification as an organic agriculture practitioner may
apply directly with any Organic Certiffing Board (OCB) or Participatory Guarantee
Systems (PGS) accredited by the Bureau of Agriculture and Fisheries Standard (BAFS).
The decision of some core Participatory Guarantee Systems (PGS) group or the organic
certiffing body on the said application for ceftification shall be subject to appeal.

Ord. No. 0897-22
Provide4 that such ceftification shall be issued in the name of the core
Pafticipatory Guarantee Systems (PGS) group of which the farm or farm owner shall be
a member.
Provided fiifther, that withdrawa! of membership in the said core Pafticipatory
Guarantee Systems (PGS) group shall result in the foffeiture of the privilege Only
minimal fees shall be collected in the application for certification as determined in the
IRR. (n)
SECTION 18. |-ABEIING OF ORGANIC PRODUCE The labeling of organic
produce shall be assisted by the City Agriculturist's Office and the City Veterinarian's
Office and must contain the name, logo or the seal of the Organic Ceftiffing Body
1oCB) and the accreditation number issued by the Bureau of Agriculture and Fisheries
Standard (BAFS), expiration date of the produce ('Desf before), date of production, lot
or batch number and quantity of content The organic label or mark may also include
the trade name or registered mark, as defined by the intellectual propefi laws and the
address of the origin of the produce.
SECTION 19. CORE PGS GROUP - The core Pafticipatory Guarantee Systems
(PGS) group shall be registered in the City of Davao. It shall secure the mayor's permit
and the possession of such is sufficient proof of registration and the grant of legal
personality which shall be limited only to Participatory Guarantee Systems (PGS)
transactions. (n)
SECTION 20. REGISTRATION OF ORGANIC PRODUCERS, PRODUCE
INPUTS AND ORGANIC PROCESSED FOODS - The City Agriculturist's Office and
the City Veterinarian's Office shall adopt rules on registration of integrated organic
farms and organic inputs by the Bureau of Agriculture and Fisheries Standard (BAFS);
Bureau of Plant Industry (BPI) as to the registration of organic seeds, planting materials
and crops, Bureau of Animal Industry (BAI) as to the registration of organic
agriculture farms, livestoc( poultry and its feeds; and the Bureau of Fisheries and
Aquatic Resources (BFAR) as to the registration of organic fisheries, aquaculture
resources and organic aquaculture feeds.
The City Agriculturist's Office shall likewise adopt the rules on registration of
organic processed food formulated by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) of
the Department of Health (DOH).
SECTION 21. DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF PGS GROUP - Each
Pafticipatory Guarantee Systems (PGS) group will enforce the duties and responsibilities
set forth by the appropriate government offices. (IRR)
SECTION 22. INCENTIVES TO SMALL AND MARGINALIZED FARMERS,
SCHOOLS AND BARANGAYS. Pursuant to the mandate of the Amended Organic
Agriculture Act of 2020, the Local Government of Davao City shall extend incentives,
awards and financial support to small and marginalized farmers, schools and barangays
which pursue, promote and practice organic farming. The City Agriculturist's Office and

Page of 10 of 13
Ord. No. 0897-22
the City Veterinarian's Office shall formulate guidelines for developing incentive
programs, award systems and/or financial support.
SECTION 23. STANDARD SEITING - The City Mayor, through the Organic
Agriculture Management Council of the City Agriculturist's Office (CAGRO), shall adopt
the organic agriculture standards set forth by the Bureau of Agriculture and Fisheries
Standard (BAFS) for Davao City.
SECTION 24. CAPACITY BUILDING, RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
AND EXTENSION - To sustain and broaden the base for the implementation of this
Ordinance, it is hereby adopted as a continuous effoft, funded by at least five percent
(5olo) from the budget set aside for organic agriculture as identified in SECTION 34 of this
Ordinance, for capacity-building and training, including the accreditation of institutions
for standard-testing and verification Measures shall also be adopted to encourage
integration of organic agriculture in the primary, secondary and teftiary school
curricula.
The Master Plan shall be regularly updated in consultation with different sectors
The participation of farmers and other stakeholders such as, but not limited to, private
entities, NGOs and LGUs in the research, development and implementation of the
master plan is preferred;
SECTION 25. PROMOTION OF URB'N ORG,I{NIC AGRICULTURE ThC
City Agriculturist's Office shall promote organic agriculture in urban areas, utilizing new
technologies and taking advantage of ecological solid waste
The barangays in the urban areas is mandated to promote organic gardening
including the establishment of organic gardens.
SECTION 26. AWARENESS RAISING PROGRAM The City Government of
Davao, through the City Agriculturist's Office and City Veterinarian's Office, shall raise
awareness program on the benefits of organic farming for health and ecology.
CHAPTER FOUR: WASTE DISPOSAL AND
CREATION OF COMPOST SITES
SECTION 27. PURPOSE - The City Government of Davao encourages those
doing business in the organic agriculture sector to build and promote responsible
disposal of organic waste in order to protect the environment, public health, safety,
comfoft, convenience, and the general welfare of the locals.
SECTION 28. COMPOST SITE - The composting site shall be located within
the owner's property and designed so that seepage from the compost will not run into
public or private streets, drainage ditches, water retention basins, and streams.
SECTION 29. WASTE PROCESSING CENTER - A waste processing center
shall be established for the processing of organic waste materials.

Ord. No. 0897-22
CHAPTER SIX: PROHIBITED ACT+ MONITORING,
EN FORCEM ENT AND PENALTIES
SECTION 30. PROHIBITED ACTS. The following acts shall be prohibited: (n)
a. To sell or charge to the consumers any amount manifestly
greater than that of the current selling price of the organic
products based on the suggested retail price determined by
appropriate Government Offices;
b Willfully obstructing delaying or committing any other acts that
violates the implementation of this Ordinance and the development
of organic agriculture in the City, including misuse, diversion, or
material misrepresentation involving support extended by the
government and or the NGO and;
c. Any other acts that are prohibited under Republic Act No. 11511
Amending Republic Act No 10068, or the Organic Agriculture Act
of 2010.
SECTION 31. PENALTIES Any person whether natural or juridical who shall
violate this Ordinance shall be penalized as follows:
Those prohibited acts under Republic Act No. 11511 Amending Republic
Act No. 10068, shall be penalized under the same law.
Those prohibited acts which are not covered by Republic Act No 11511
Amending Republic Act No. 10068 shall be covered by the following graduated
penalties;
First offense payment of Fine amounting to Php 1 000;
Second offense, payment of Fine amounting to Php 3,000;
Third offense, payment of Fine amounting to Php 5,000.
SECTION 32. ENFORCEMENT,//TONITORING TEAMS (EMn The Regional
Post Market Surueillance Team (RPMSD shall conduct regular proactive and reactive
rounds to ensure compliance with the applicable Organic Philippine National Standards
conduct assessment of market outlets on the awareness of the Organic Agriculture Act
and apprehend violators of this Ordinance
CHAPTER FIVE: FINAL PROVISTONS
SECTION 33. IMPLEMENTING RULES AND REGUL/TIONS - The City
Mayor is hereby authorized to create a joint executive-legislative committee to
formulate the Implementing Rules and Regulations of this Ordinance upon its
effectivity.

Ord. No. 0897-22
SECTION 34. APPROPRIATION CLAUSE - The City Government of Davao
shal! appropriate substantial budget of at least two percent (2olo) of the ADF budget of
the City Government of Davao for the implementation of the Organic Agriculture
Program including incentives and to ensure the implementation of this Ordinance and to
support the organic agriculture activities of the City. (n)
SECTION 35. SEPARABILITY CLAUSE - If any part of this Ordinance is
declared unconstitutional, the remaining parts unaffected thereby shall continue to
remain valid and in effect
SECTION 36. REPEALING CLAUSE All ordinances, executive orders, rules
and regulations or pafts thereof inconsistent with this Ordinance are hereby repealed or
modified accordingly
SECTION 37. EFFECTMTY CIAUSE This Ordinance shall take effect fifteen
(15) days after the completion of its publication in a newspaper of local circulation.
ENACTED, February 22, 2A22, by a unanimous vote of all the Members of the
Sanggunian present, there being a quorum.
CERTIFIED CORRECT:
- U,v,A6 )r. /*^
CHARITO N. qANTOS
Secretary to the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod
(City Government Department Head II),
ATTESTED:
EDGAR P.
President Pro
Temporary Presiding Officer
cns/mjb

)
i
T
ATTESTED:
i
i
I
i
APPROVED:
Ord. No. 0897-22
APR 0 I 2022
2022
SARA Z. DUTERTE
- Citt *avp
^ffi
DUTERTE
Mayor Y
LOPEZ
City Administrator ,
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING ORDTNANCE 0384-10, SERIES OF 2010, OTHERWISE KNOWN AS'ORGANIC
AGRICULTURE ORDINANCE OF DAVAO CITY 2010".
Actlng