a
,pNc
208 City Council
2Os Regular Session
SERIES of 2022
PRESENT:
Vice Mayor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
ABSENT:
Councilor
Councilor
Luna Maria Dominique S. Acosta
Conrado C. Baluran
-OB- Benchmarking on modern
agriculture and farming in
Cameron Highlands, Malaysia
-On Sick Leave
-OB- Represented the City Mayor
in an activity sponsored by the
Depaflrnent of Agriculture
J. Melchor B. Quitain Jr.
-Presiding fficer
Nilo M. Abellera Jr.
Bai Hundra Cassandra Dominique N. Advincula
Bernard E. AI-ag
Wilbefto E. Al-ag
Al Ryan S. Alejandre
Dante L. Apostol Sr.
Jessica M. Bonguyan
Louie John J. Bonguyan
Pilar C. Braga
Augusto Javier G. Campos III
Jonard C. Dayap
Edgar P. Ibuyan Jr.
Edgar R. Ibuyan Sr.
Richlyn N. Justol-Baguilod
Diosdado Angelo Junior R. Mahipus
Rodolfo M. Mande
Jaffar U. Marohomsalic
Bonz Andre A. Militar
Temujin B. Ocampo
Myrna G. L'Dalodo-Ortiz
Albefto T. Ungab
Lorenzo Benjamin D. Villafuefte
Trisha Ann J. Villafuefte
Jesus Joseph P. Zozobrado III
Councilor Marissa S. Abella
oRDrNAl{CE NO. 0111-22
SERIES of 2022
Ail ORDINANCE AMENDING CITY ORDINANCE NO. 089.13,
SERTES OF 2013, ESTABLTSHTNG AND REGUTATTNG THE NrGHT
MARKET OPERATIONS IN THE CITY OF DAVAO
t

Ord. No. 0tll-22
Be it ordained by the Honorable SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod of Davao City, in session
assembled, that:
SECTION 1. TITLE - This Ordinance Amending City Ordinance No. 089-13, SERIES
of 2013, Establishing and Regulating the Night Market Operations in the City of Davao,
shall be called *NIGHT MARKET ORDINANCE OF DAVAO CITY, AS AMENDED";
SECTIOI{ 2. AMENDMENTS - Ordinance No. 089-13 is hereby amended, to read
as follows:
ARTICLE 1
TITLE
SECTION 1. This Ordinance establishing and regulating the Night Market in the
City of Davao shall be called'NIGHT MARKET ORDINANCE OF DAVAO CITY, AS
AMEilDED";
SECTION 2. DECLARATION OF POLICY
a. SECTION 16 of the Local Government Code of 1991 provides that "Every local
government unit shall exercise the powers expressly granted, those necessarily
implied there from, as well as powers necessary, appropriate, or incidental for its
efficient and effective governance, and those which are essential to the promotion
of the general welfare. Within their respective territorial jurisdictions, local
government units shall ensure and support, among other things, the preservation
and enrichment of culture, promote health and safety, enhance the right of the
people to a balanced ecology, encourage and support the development of
appropriate and self-reliant scientific and technological capabilities, improve public
morals, enhance economic prosperity and social justice, promote full employment
among their residents, maintain peace and order, and preserue the comfoft and
convenience of their inhabitants."
b. SECTION 2L, paragraph (d) of the Local Government Code of 1991, provides that,
"Any city, municipality, or barangay may, by a duly enacted ordinance, temporarily
close and regulate the use of any loca! street, road, thoroughfare, or any other
public place where shopping malls, Sunday, flea or night markets, or shopping areas
may be established where goods, merchandise, foodstuft, commodities, or afticles
of commerce may be sold and dispensed to the general public."
ARTICLE 2
DEFINITION OF TERMS
SECTION 1" As used in this Ordinance, the following terms shall be construed,
understood and shall mean as follows:
a. MARKET - a private or public place, building or structure operated and dedicated to
the service of the general public where basic commodities are displayed, offered for
sale, and for profit;
b. ilIGHT MARKET - a government-regulated market conducted at specific time and
duration of the night, located in a propefi, portions of designated places or streets
tl

Ord. No. 0llL-22
in the City of Davao legally and temporarily closed to vehicular traffic to accommodate
the people indulged in the business of selling goods or offering of seruices to the public
for profit, located ouEide the city public markets;
c. COLLECTOR - is the revenue collection clerk who is properly bonded representing the
City Treasurer's ffice (gfO) to collect the night market fees or charges and issue the
corresponding receipt or cash tickets;
d. CUSTOMER - any person buying the goods displayed or patronizing the seruices of the
awardees in the night markets of the City of Davao.
e. SECURIW OFFICER - is the Civil Security fficer, assigned to maintain peace and order
in the market area, in coordination with the Public Safety and Security ffice;
f. NIG}IT MARKET SUPERVISOR - a personnel assigned or designated by the City
Government of Davao to superuise the day-to-day operations of the night market;
g. DESIGNATED NIGHT MARKET PTACES - these are officially declared locations which
could be lands, portion of roads or streets legally and temporarily closed to vehicular
traffic to serue as night markets in the City of Davao. Location can be expanded, relocated
or transfered by the local government through a Resolution enacted by the Tiangge sa
Katawhan Management Team and upon approval of the City Mayor, as the need arises;
h. JURIDICAL PERSON - entities created by law, or by a group of individuals for a certain
laMul purpose, susceptible of rights and obligations, or of being subject to juridical
relations;
i. IMMEDIATE HEIRS - spouse or children of the regular awardee, provided that he/she
is the head of the family;
j. HEAD OF THE FAMILY - pertains to the husband or wife, or an unmarried man or
woman with one or both parents, or one or more legitimate, recognized natural, or
adopted children dependent upon him or her for their chief support where such brothers,
sisters, or children are less than twenty-one years of age;
k. REGUI-AR AWARDEE - refers to an interested person who has submitted an application
and has been selected through raffling, thus, allowed to sell in the night market and
allowed to display and sell goods or offer seruice thereto within the period set forth on
this Ordinance, and has paid the corresponding fees also provided in this Ordinance. This
term may be used interchangeably with "awardees" or \endorc";
l. R"ESERVE AWARDEES - refers to additional persons selected during raffling, who shall
be allowed to sell in a space in the night market in the event that the number of regular
awardees are insufficient to fill in the allocated number of stalls by reason of withdrawal,
incapacity, disqualification or eviction due to revocation of award;
m. PHYSICAT INCAPACITY - referc to the inability of an awardee to occupy the space
awarded to him/her by reason of total physica! disability and death;
INCAPACITY- refers to disqualification other than physical incapacity, and revocation
of award due to violation of this Ordinance;
o. READY-TO-EAT FOOD - refers to food which is already prepared prior to display and
can be immediately consumed by a customer such as, turo-turc, sandwiches,
n
t

Ord. No. 0LLt-22
hamburger, fries, chicharon, soft drinks, coffee, teas, and other non-alcoholic drinks,
and the like;
p. READY-TO-COOK FOOD - refers to food which must be prepared upon order by
customer, such as barbecue, grilled foods, and the like;
ARTICLE 3
CREATION OF'TIANGGE SA KATAWHAil MAI{AGEMEilT TEAM"
SECTIOI{ 1. There is hereby created a "Tiangge Sa Katawhan Management Team"
to be composed of the representative of the following offices:
1. City Mayor's Office - as Head'
2. City Administrator's Office;
3. City Enginee/s Office;
4. Office of the City Planning and Development Coordinator;
5. City Legal Office;
6. Integrated Gender and Development Division;
7. City Treasurer's Office;
8. City Environment and Natural Resources Office;
9. City Economic Enterprise;
10. Public Safety and Security Office;
11. City Transport and Traffic Management Office;
12. City Tourism Operations Offtce;
13. SP Committee on Government Enterprises and Privatization;
14. SP Committee on Trade, Commerce and Industry;
15. SP Committee on Finance, Ways and Means, and Appropriations
16. SP Committee on Tourism and Beautification;
17. City Health Office;
18. Davao City Police Office;
19. Task Force Davao; and
20. City Socia! Seruices and Development Office.
SECTION 2. The "Tiangge Sa Katawhan Management Team" shall oversee and
supervise fie operations of the Night Market project of the city. It shall have the following
duties and responsibilities:
a. Formulate policies, rules, regulations and guidelines for the operation and
management of the night market;
b. Conduct periodic review of the night market operations;
c. Decide on the number of spaces for selling or display in various night
markets and designate a number of reserue awardees to be allowed to sell
in the night market in case of incapacity of the regular awardee;
d. Oversee the drawing of lots and raffiing of spaces allowed for selling and
display and those that shal! be subsequently declared vacant in the night
market;
e. Certiff the results of the raffling;
i

Ord. No. 0L1l-22
f. Formulate such measures of actions as may be necessary in the resolution
of problems, in connection with the displaying or selling in the Night Market;
g. Decide on the revocation or cancellation of applications, eviction of
awardees from the space he/she is allowed to sell on the ground/s of
violation of specific provisions of this Ordinance and other relevant existing
Ordinances;
h. Designate other areas to be utilized for night market operations, as the
need arises, subject to the approval of the City Mayor; and,
i. Designate night markets to operate only for ceftain days and time of the
week, if necessary;
j. Decide on matters/issues which may arise relative to the operations of the
night market and implementation of this Ordinance.
SECTION 3. The "Tiangge Sa Katawhan Management Team" shal! convene and
hold a regular meeting at least once a month, or as the need arises upon the call of its
Head.
SECTION 4. The City Economic Enterprise shall serue as the Secretariat of the
Tiangge sa Katawhan Management Team.
ARTICLE 4
LOCATIONS OF THE NIGHT MARKET
SECTION 1. The following roads shall be designated as Night Market areas in the
City of Davao, to wit:
a. From corner C.M. Recto/M. Roxas Avenue Road (right side) going to Quezon
Boulevard, except its intersections;
b. Road 1, Toril Public Market (half Iane only)- right side coming ftom Makati St. to
corner General Lao StreeU and,
c. All other areas within the City of Davao, as may be designated by the Tiangge sa
Katawhan Management Team and as approved by the City Mayor.
ARTICLE 5
CLOSURE OF ROADS
SECTION 1. In fuftherance to the declared policy of the city, as embodied under
SECTION 2, Article 1 of this Ordinance, the abovementioned roads shall be closed to
vehicular traffic for night market operations, from 5:00 PM to 2:00AM of the following
day, from Mondays to Sundays.
However, the abovementioned roads shall be closed to vehicular traffic stafting 4:00PM
in order to give way for the CTTIvIO and PSSO to commence the preparations for the
night market.

Ord. No. 0LLl-22
ARTICLE 6
INSTATLATION OF STRUCTURES. DISPLAY OF GOODS AND ITS REMOVAL
SECTIOI{ 1. Awardees shall be allowed to sell and install their structures only in
their designated area.
SECTION 2, The City Government, through the "Tiangge Sa Katawhan
Management Team", shall provide the design of the collapsible structures and shall
regulate the same to obserue safety, orderliness and aesthetics.
SECTION 3. All structures, materials and goods displayed must be removed and
cleared completely on or before closing time.
SECTION 4. No structures and goods or any part thereof shall be displayed befiore
the designated time nor shall be left within the allowed market site and/or along any
streets, road-right-of-ways and any government facilities or sites prior to the
commencement of operations of the night market.
SECTION 5. The awardees are solely responsible for the safekeeping, maintenance
and installation of their stall, tents or fixtures.
ARTICLE 7
DESIGNATED TIME AND DURATION OF THE NIGHT MARKET
SECTIOil 1. Awardees shall be allowed to open their tents and display their goods,
etc. starting at 5:00 otlock in the evening ftom Mondays to Sundays".
However, the Tiangge sa Katawhan Management Team may, through a Resolution
enacted for the purpose, designate night markets to operate only for ceftain days and
time of the week.
SECTION 2. Closing time shall not be later than 2:00 otlock the following morning.
ARTICLE 8
AVAILMENT OF SPACE IN THE NIGHT MARKET
SECTION 1. The application to avail a designated space in the Night Market must
be submitted to the "Tiangge Sa Katawhan Management Team", through the City
Economic Enterprise, fur evaluation.
SECTION 2. Only one (1) application can be submitted per head of the family. The
applicant must decide which SECTION he/she intends to apply for.
The City Economic Enterprise is authorized to refuse acceptance of any application
of individuals found to have applied for two (2) or more sections, or found to belong to
the same immediate family.
SECTION 3. The following documents shall be submitted (original or ceftified true
copy) by the applicant:

Ord. No. 0l1l-22
1. Duly-accomplished Application Form;
2. Marriage Contract, or if not married but head of the family, Birth Certificate of
child/children or Notarized Affidavit alleging that he/she is the head of the
family;
3. Vote/s Certification/COMElEC lD/National ID;
4. Barangay Clearance;
5. Police Clearance;
6. For massage, NC2 Certification or Training Ceftificate duly issued by accredited
Training Centers;
7. Health Certificate (to be complied if applicant is selected during raffiing).
SECTION 4. Open raffiing of applicants shall be conducted by the \angge Sa
Katawhan Management Team", for the selection of vendors who may sell in the Night
Market areas. The result of the raffiing shall be ceftified by the Tiangge sa Katawhan
Management Team and submitted to the Office of the City Mayor for information.
SECTION 5. The selected awardees of the spaces at the Night Market shall be
allowed to sell in the same area for a duration of three (3) months.
The said awardees shall be disqualified to sell in the same area of the night market
for the next succeeding quafters within the year.
SECTIOil 6. All vendors selected during raffiing must personally attend the
Orientation conducted by the different agencies of the City Government of Davao on
pertinent subjects, including but not limited to, Sanitation, Peace and Order, Proper Waste
Disposal, Identification of Improvised Explosive Devices (IED), Identification of suspicious
looking individuals and hotline numbers in case of emergencies, such as fires,
eafthquakes, looting, etc. Failure to attend the Orientation is a ground for revocation of
the award, subject to the procedures as provided in this Ordinance.
SECTIOil 7. The awardees shall only be allowed to sell in the allotted space upon
payrnent of the Night Market Vending Fee in an amount equal to one (1) month,
computed in accordance with the rate provided in this Ordinance. Succeeding monthly
payments of the said fee shall be made on or before the fifth (5s) day of the following
month.
SECTION 8. The vendors must commence doing business in the designated area
on the day determined by the Tiangge sa Katawhan Management Team for him to sell in
the space.
Failure to sell for three (3) consecutive days without justifiable cause shall be a
ground for the immediate revocation of award.
The selected awardee who fails to sel! without justifiable cause, as determined by
the Tiangge sa Katawhan Management Team, shall be block-listed to pafticipate in the
raffiing for all night markets and markets duly operated by the City Government of Davao
for a period of one (1) year from the date of expiration of their award.
SECTION 9. In case of withdrawal, disqualification, and incapacity of the current
awardee, the reserue awardee selected, based on order of priority during raffiing, shall
be allowed to sell in the subject space within the remaining period allocated for the
quarter.

Ord. No. 0LlL-22
ARTICLE 9
OUALIFICATIONS OF AWARDEES IN THE NIGHT MARKET
SECTION 1. Must be a natural person, of legal age (18 years old), a resident of
Davao City, and the head of a family.
SECTION 2. Must have submitted all documents as may be required under Article
8, SECTION 3 of this Ordinance.
SECTIOil 3. Must not have an existing business registered within the City of Davao.
SECTIOI{ 4. Must not have any arrears due to the City Government of Davao.
ARTICLE 10
SANITATION
SECTIOil 1. Awardees shall, at all times, be responsible for the sanitation of their
premises and their immediate surroundings.
SECTIOil 2. Awardees must place their solid waste in disposable containers,
propedy kept at the side of the gutter of the road, its top opening tied or sealed to avoid
scattering or spillage for convenient collection by garbage trucks.
SECTION 3. Awardees must maintain dryness of the area to avoid being filthy
looking.
SECTION 4. Liquid waste must be placed in a container and disposed in the
drainage canal.
SECTION 5. No solid waste shall be discharged to the drainage canals.
SECTION 6. Awardees must, at any time, grant access to City Environment and
Natural Resources Office (CENRO) for the conduct of regular inspection of waste disposal
in the areas designated as Night Market.
SECTION 7. Awardees must, at any time, grant access to the City Health Office
(CHO) during the conduct of random inspection and testing of food for food vendors to
ensure food safety and compliance to the provisions of Ordinance No. 078, otherwise
known as the "Environmental Health and Sanitation Ordinance of Davao Ciq/'.
SECTION 8. Violation of any sanitary laws and other related Ordinances, in
connection with their selling as awardees, shal! be a ground for revocation of award under
this Ordinance.
ARTICLE 11
GOODS AND SERVICES NOT ALLOWED IN THE NIGHT MARKET
SECTION 1. Livestock, heavy and bulky hardware, lumber, pungent and odorous
goods.
,

Ord. No. 0lll-22
SECTION 2. Seruices that emit loud noise and require healry electrical Ioad rated
more than 500 watts.
SECTION 3. Alcoholic or intoxicating beverages.
ARTICTE 12
PEACE AND ORDER
SECTION 1. The City Government, through the Public Safety and Security OfficeCivil Security Unit (PSSO-CSU), shal! assign a Civil Security Officer to the areas designated
as Night Market to maintain peace and order. Assistance from the Philippine National
Police shall be called whenever necessary and a hotline number will be provided for
emergency.
SECTION 2. In case of emergency or fire/conflagration near the vicinity of the
Night Market area, awardees must immediately evacuate their sffuctures to clear the road
for the passge of the fire fighting units and firemen. It shall be the duty of the Night
Market Superuisors to inform the awardees of such precautions.
SECTIOil 3. The awardees must be vigilant and must obserue peace and
orderliness at all times.
SECTION 4. Illegal and suspicious-lookng abandoned goods shall be confiscated
in favor of the City Government for proper disposal and will not be returned to the owner.
ARTICTE 13
FEES AND CHARGES
SECTION 1. A Night Market Vending Fee for the privilege of selling in the
designated Night Markets shall be collected by the City Treasurer's Office (CfO), at the
rate of P10.00/sq.m./day.
Further, an additional fee amounting to Php 10.00/day per awardee shall also be
collected for the maintenance of the night market.
SECTION 2. The vendors shall only be allowed to se!! in the night market upon
payment of the aforementioned fees in an amount equal to one (1) month computed in
accordance with the existing rate, as provided under the immediately preceding SECTION.
Succeeding monthly payments for such imposition shall be made on or before the fifth
(5s) day of the following month.
SECTION 3. The City Economic Enterprise and City Treasure/s Office shall ensure
that all vendors in the Night Market must pay their tax obligation within the allowable
period and in accordance with the prescribed manner as provided for in the Ordinance.
SECTION 4. Non-payment of the abovementioned fees within the period required
shall be a ground for the revocation of award of the delinquent awardees and his/her
subsequent eviction from his/her designated space in the Night Market.

Ord. No.0111-22
ARTICLE 14
LIMIT OF AREA TO BE OCCUPIED
SECTION 1. The space available for each vendor shall be 3x3 meters for Food
SECTION and 2x3 meters for Accessories and RTW Sections.
However, the Tiangge sa Katawhan Management Team, upon recommendation of
the City Engineer's Office, and through a Resolution enacted for the purpose, may amend
the dimension/measurement of the area.
ARTICLE 15
ELECTRICAL'\ND LIGHTING FACITITIES
SECTION 1. No utility seruices or amenities shall be allowed to be installed by the
vendors/occupants at their space in the Night Market without the written approval of the
Tiangge sa Katawhan Management Team.
SECTION 2. Use of generator sets as power supply is prohibited. Only rechargeable lights may be used.
ARTICLE 16
SECTIONS tN THE NIGHT MARKET
SECTION 1. For the purpose of order and aesthetics, the Night Market shall be
arranged as follows:
a) Food and Beverages SECTION (may include food trucks)
i. Ready-to-Eat Food; and,
ii. Ready-to-Cook Food,
b) Accessories SECTION
i. Jewelry (Necklace, Pendant, Wristwatch, Ring, Earrings, Bracelet,
Anklets, and Brooch);
ii. BelU
iii. Gloves;
iv. HaU
v. Sunglasses;
vi. Socks;
vii. HelmeU
viii. Tie (Bow and NecKie);
ix. Wallet and Coin Purse;
x. Headband;
xi. Umbrella;
xii. Handfans and Non-Electric Fans;
xiii. Handkerchief;
xiv. Perfumes and Colognes;
)ry. Small Mirrors;
nri. Face Masks;
><vii. HairAccessories;

Ord. No. 0LLl-22
>oriii. Phone Accessories;
xix. Stuffed Toys;
)o(. Souvenir Items (excluding Printed Promotional T-Shirts and Jackets)
c) RTW and Linen (New and Pre-Loved) SECTION
i. Promotional Printed T-Shirts and Linen;
ii. Pre-loved Apparel Cf-Shirt, Blouse, Shorts, Pants, Jackets, Lingerie)
and Linen (Comfofter, Bedsheet, Pillowcase, Towels);
iii. Brand New Apparel Cl--Shirt, Blouse, Shorts, Pants, Jackets, Lingerie)
and Linen (Comfofter, Bedsheet, Pillowcase, Towels);
iv. Pre-Loved Footwear (Rubber Shoes, Leather Shoes, Slippers, Sandals)
and Bags (Backpack, Luggage, Pillow, Sling Bags, Handbags).
v. Brand New Footwear (Rubber Shoes, Leather Shoes, Slippers,
Sandals) and Bags (Backpack, Luggage, Pillow, Sling Bags, Handbags).
d) Services SECTION
i.
Massage
ii.
Mobile Toilet
SECTION 2. The 'lTangge sa Katawhan Management Team may, through a
Resolution enacted for the purpose, identiff other cuisines and goods allowed to be sold
at the night markets.
Further, the Tiangge sa Katawhan Management Team, ffidy, also through a
Resolution, designate the terms and conditions for selling necessary to improve the
condition of the night markets, including allocation of stalls per kind of goods to be sold
and the !ike.
SECTIOil 3. The Tiangge sa Katawhan Management Team may also allow the
establishment of omfoft rooms for the night markets, subject to the terms and conditions
as may be deemed proper by the Team, such as, but not limited to, matterc peftaining
to the period of selling of the subject awardee.
ARTICLE 17
WEARING OF IDENTIFICATION CARD AND COLOR-CODED T.SHTRTS
SECTION 1. Awardees and their helpers must wear, at all times, an identification
card duly issued by the City Government with the Health Card ID issued by the CiU Health
Office (CHO).
SECTIOI{ 2. Awardees and their helpers must wear a colored T-shirt as per
category of items sold, as fullows:
a) Food and Beverages SECTION - Orange;
b) Accessories SECTION - Blue;
c) RTW and Linen SECTION - Red;
d) Services SECTION - Green.

Ord. No. 0ttl-22
ARTICTE 18
LTMITATIONS
SECTION 1. Allowing another individual to sell in his/her designated area in the
Night Market is strictly prohibited, except when an awardee dies or becomes physically
incapacitated.
In the event that an awardee dies, or becomes physically incapacitated, his/her
immediate heir may continue the privilege to sell, upon approval of the Tiangge sa
Katawhan Management Team, provided he/she has submitted sufficient documentary
proof of such incapacity, such as the following:
a. In case of death, Death Certificate of the awardee and Notarized Extrajudicial
Settlement of Estate with Waiver of Rights in favor of the new heir-transferee
ln case of multiple heirs or Affidavit of Self-Adjudication in case of a sole heir;
and,
b. In case of physical incapacity, medical ceftificate indicating that the awardee
is physically incapacitated to sell at the night market.
ARTICLE 19
PENAL CLAUSE
SECTION 1. Violations of this Ordinance shall be subject to the following
administrative penalties, as follows:
a. First Offense
b. Second ffiense
Warning;
Suspension for 1 week with payment
of rental fee;
Revocation of Award
c. Third Offense
ARTICTE 20
SEPARABILIW CLAUSE
SECTION 1. If for any reason, or reasons, any part or provision of this Ordinance
shall be held unconstitutional or invalid, other pafts or provisions hereof which are not
affected thereby shall continue to be in full force and effect.
ARTICLE 21
EFFECTIVITY CLAUSE
SECTION 1. This Ordinance shall take effect immediately upon approval.
EI{ACTED, on the 29h day of November 2022, by a majority vote of all the Members
of the Sanggunian present.
rzr.

Ord. No. 0LLL-22
CERTIFIED CORRECT:
^ Arui\- /',{-
CHARTTO N. S+NTOS
Secretary to the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod
(City Government Depaflnrent Head II)
ATTESTED:
J.
B. QUITAIN JR.
Vice Mayor
Presiding Officer
cns/aya
APPROVED: IAN 1 3 2023 ,2022
SEBASTIAN Z. DUTERTE
v
cirv uavV
ATTESTED:
ATTY.
H. LAYOG
Acting
istrator
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CITY ORDINANCE NO. 08$13, SERIES OF 2013, ESTABLISHING AND
REGUI.ATING THE NIGHT MARKET OPERATIONS IN THE CITY OF DAVAO