rlt
19th City Council
8th Regular Session
SERIES of 2022
PRESENT:
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
ABSENT:
Vice Mayor Sebastian Z. Dutefte
OB- Acting City Mayor
ORDINANCE NO. 0891.22
SERIES of 2O22
AN ORDINAilCE CREATING THE CITY PEACE 911 COUNCIT
AND PEACE 911 SA BARANGAY, SUBIECT TO ALL IAWS AND
EXISTING LEGAT RULES AND REGULATIONS
Louie John J. Bonguyan
- Temporary Presiding Officer
Ralph O. Abella
Nilo D. Abellera
Bai Hundra Cassandra Dominique N. Advincula
Wilberto E. Al-ag
Dante L. Apostol Sr.
Conrado C. Baluran
Jessica M. Bonguyan
Pilar C. Braga
Augusto Javier G. Campos III
Danilo C. Dayanghirang
Jonard C. Dayap
Edgar P. Ibuyan Jr.
Edgar R. Ibuyan Sr.
Richlyn N. Justol-Baguilod
Pamela A. Librado-Morata
Diosdado Angelo Junior R. Mahipus
Rodolfo M. Mande
Jaffar U. Marohomsalic
Bonifacio E. Militar
Myrna G. L'Dalodo-Ortiz
Antoinette G. Principe-Castrodes
J. Melchor B. Quitain Jr.
Albefto T. Ungab
Mary Joselle D. Villafuefte
Jesus Joseph P. Zozobrado III

,-I
{
i
Ord. No.0891-22
Be it ordained by the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod of Davao City in session assembled,
that
SECTION 1. TITLE - This Ordinance shall be referred to as "An Ordinance
Creating the City Peace 911 Council and the Peace 911 sa Barangay, Subject to All Laws
and Existing Legal Rules and Regulations".
SECTION 2. DECLARATION OF PRINCIPLES AND POLICIES
A. The City Government of Davao is committed to the maintenance of
peace and security within its jurisdiction, as a safe and peaceful
environment is vital to the progress of a city when there are no risks
and threats to its development.
B. Implementing and policymaking bodies are created for the purpose of
peacebuilding.
C. Therc are eight (8) broad categories that create and sustain peaceful
societies. The Institute for Economics and Peace has identified the
following eight (8) Pillars of PosiUve Peace as the most common
characteristics of most peaceful societies. These pillars are:
. Well-functioning government;
o Low levels of corruption;
. Acceptance of the rights of others;
. Good relations with neighbors;
. Sound business environment;
o High level of human capital;
. Equitable distribution of resources; and
o Free flow of information.
The concept of Positive Peace acknowledges that ending direct violence
alone does not guarantee durable peace. Ending direct violence is
Negative Peace. For peace to endure, a society must build longer-term
conditions that enable society to unify and flourish. This is called
Positive Peace. Investing in Positive Peace improves resilience,
mitigates risks of violence, and reduces the economic toll from conflict.
The Eight-Pillars of Positive Peace are highly interconnected and
interact together to build a system. It therefore requires building
capacities for peace, not only of the government, but also of local
communities and other structures and institutions of the city. The
establishment of Peace 911- The Center For Peacebuilding will
contribute to the achievement of the 17 Sustainable Development
Goals of the United Nations, in particular, Goal 16 on building
peace, justice and strong institutions, strengthening human rights,
reducing discrimination and inequality, promoting gender equality,
preseruing natural resources and protecting the climate.
D. Republic Act TLGI SECTION 3(b) states that there shall be
established in every local government unit an accountable, efficient,
and dynamic organizational structure and operating mechanism that
will meet the priority needs and seruice requirements of its
communities; and 3 (h) there shall be a continuing mechanism to
enhance local autonomy not only by legislative enabling acts but also
by administrative and organizational reforms.

Ord. No. 0891-22
E. Republic Act 7160, SECTION 76 states that every local government unit
shall design and implement its own organizational structure and staffing
pattern taking into consideration its service requirements and financial
capacity, subject to the minimum standards and guidelines prescribed by
the Civil Service Commission.
F. Republic of the Philippines Executive Order No. 70, SERIES of
2018, Institutionalizing the Whole-Of-Nation Approach in Attaining
Inclusive and Sustainable Peace, Creating a National Task Force to end
Local Communist Armed Conflict, and Directing the Adoption of A National
Peace Framework".
G. City of Davao Executive Oder No. 54, SERIES of 2019, "An order
Integrating Presidential Executive Order No. 70, SERIES of 2018,
promulgated by President Rodrigo Roa Dutefte and its Implementing
Guidelines into The Peace 911, providing Funds Therefore and for Other
Purposes."
H. City of Davao Executive Order No. 08, SERIES af 2021., "An Order
Amending Executive Order No. 54, SERIES of 2019, Redefining the Focus
Area of Peace glL' - The Executive Order creates Peace 911 General
Committee as a policymaking body of Peace 911, including its coverage,
membership and functions.
SECTION 3. DEFINITION OF TERMS AND ACRONYMS:
Barangay functionaries shall refer to the SK
Treasurer, SK Secretary, SK Kagawads and other
workers or personnel designated or engaged by
the barangay peforming official functions and
duties, and whose remunerations are sourced
from baranoay funds
IEP
Institute for Economics and Peace- an
independent think-tank and leader in the study of
peace and conflict
Peace 911
Short name that refers to Peace 911- The Center
for Peacebuildinq
Peace 911- The Center
For Peacebuildino
The implementing or executive body for all
oeacebuildinq concerns of the ciW oovernment
Peacebuilding
Seeks to address the underlying causes of conflict,
helping people to resolve their differences
peacefully and lay the foundations to prevent
future violence (Conci liatory Resources)
PPA
Proqrams, Proiects and Activities
Polirymaking
The formulation of ideas or plans that are used by
an organization or government as a basis for
makinq decisions. (Collins Dictionary)
Polirymaking Body
The board or commission with policymaking
authority over a health or human seruices aoency.
Republic Act 7160
Republic Act No. 7L60, otherwise known as the
"Local Government Code of the Philippines"
Secretariat
The administrative department of
a
governmenta I organizati on (Merriam-Webster)
The officials or office entrusted with
administrative duties, maintaining records, and
overseeing or performing secretarial duties
(Dictionary.com)
UN
United Nations
I
Barangay
Functionaries

Ord. No. 0891-22
SECTIOil 4. CREATION OF THE PEACE 911 COUNCIL -The City Peace 911 Council
and the Peace 911 sa Barangay are hereby created pursuant to the provisions of this
Ordinance:
A. The City Peace 911 Council is hereby created pursuant to the provisions of
this Ordinance;
B. The Peace 911 sa Barangay shall be created in a barangay as
recommended by the City Peace 911 Council and approved by the City
Mayor, pursuant to the provisions of this Ordinance;
C. Peace 911-The Center for Peacebuilding may recommend to the City
Peace 911 Council the creation of Peace 911 sa Barangay in specific
barangays of the city;
D. All barangays included for the creation of the Peace 911 sa Barangay shall
be approved by the City Mayor;
E. Composition of the City Peace 911 Council shall be reconstituted every
fiscal year by the City Mayor;
F. Composition of the Peace 911 sa Barangay shall be reconstituted every
fiscal year by the Punong Barangay and concurred by the Barangay
Council.
SECTION 5. DUTIES AND FUNCTIONS OF THE CITY PEACE 911 COUNCIL. The
duties and functions of the City Peace 911 Council are the following:
A. Serues as the advisory body of the City Government of Davao in all
matters involving peace promotion;
B. Coordinates with the Peace 911 sa Barangay and build peace tables that
the communities can use as a sounding board to inform the government of
their concerns relative to development in their communities;
C. Helps create viable, long-term solutions to community concerns in
peacebuilding in order to achieve a peaceful community and promote a
safer environment free from all security risks and threats;
D. Plans, analyzes and evaluates
peacebuilding;
programs and activities related to
E. Performs other related tasks pursuant to the provisions of this Ordinance.
SECTION 6. COMPOSITION OF THE CITY PEACE 911 COUilqL. Members of the
City Peace 911 Council shall be appointed by the City Mayor pursuant to the provisions of this
Ordinance:
A. The City Peace 911 Council shall be composed of:
1. The City Mayor or his/her duly authorized representative to act as
Chairperson;
2 Two (2) members from the Government;
3. Two (2) members from the Private Sector;
4. One (1) member from Faith-based Organization;
5. One (1) member from the Education Sector;
6. One (1) member from the City Councilors; and
7, One (1) member from the Youth Sector.
i.

-
Ord. No.0891-22
B. The Vice-Chairpercon shall be elected by the members of the City
Peace 911 Council.
C. Members of the Peace 911 General Committee shall form part of the
initial composition of the City Peace 911 Council.
D. Members of the City Peace 911 Council shall be appointed by the
City Mayor pursuant to the provisions of this Ordinance.
SECTION T.
- The Peace
911 General Committee, as created under Executive Order No.08, SERIES of 202L of the
City of Davao, shall be known as the "City Peace 911 Council". All previous documents,
memoranda and Ordinances bearing the name Peace 911 General Committee shall be
recognized as one and the same with the City Peace 911 Council.
SECTION 8. SECRETARIAT OF CITY PEACE 911 COUilCIL. Peace 911. The
Center for PeacebuiHing shall act as the secretariat of the City Peace 911 Council. The
duties and responsibilities of the Secretariat are as follows:
a. Provides a clerical staff in al! meetings of the City Peace 911
Counci!;
b. Keeps and maintains all records and documents of the City Peace
911 Council;
c. Organizes conferences, meetings and other activities of the City
Peace 911 Council;
d. Prepares the guidelines of all activities;
e. Prepares and submits budgetary requirements;
t. Prepares the agenda of every meeting and forwards copies of the
Minutes of Meeting to the City mayor and the members of the City
Peace 911 Council;
g. Provides communication conduit between the City Peace 911 Council
and the Peace 911 sa Barangay;
h. Provides technical assistance;
i. Performs other duties and responsibilities for the City Peace 911
Council as instructed by the City Mayor, pursuant to the provisions
of this Ordinance.
SECTION 9. DUTIES AND FUNCTIONS OF THE PEACE 911 SA
BARANGAY- The duties and functions of the Peace 911 sa Barangay are as follows:
a. Recommends programs and coordinates peacebuilding activities
consistent with the cityt peacebuilding policies;
b. Formulates and implements a comprehensive and integrated
peacebuilding plan for the barangay;
c. Facilitates and supports peacebuilding programs at the barangay
Ievel;

(
Ord. No.0891-22
d. Consolidates information needed for peacebuilding;
e. Organizes training and knowledge management in coordination with
Peace 91l-The Center for Peacebuilding and the Barangay Council;
f. Secures resolution of concurrence from the barangay council for all
plans, programs and activities of the Peace 911 sa Barangay;
g. Analyses and evaluates plans, activities and programs related to
peacebuilding efforts at the barangay Ievel;
h. Performs other tasks as needed pursuant to the objectives of this
Ordinance.
SECTION IO. MEMBERS OF THE PEACE 911 SA BARAilGAY- Members of
the Peace 911 sa Barangay shall be appointed by the Punong Barangay and concurred
with a resolution from the Barangay Council:
A. The chairperson shall be appointed by the Punong Barangay from
the identified memberc of the Peace 911 sa Barangay;
B. The Peace 911 sa Barangay shall be composed of the following:
1. One (1) member from the Barangay Kagawads;
2. One (1) member from either the Barangay Secretary,
Barangay Treasurer or any Barangay Functionary who
shall act as the secretary;
3. Five (5) members from any of the following sectors in
the barangay:
a. Farm sector;
b. Faith-based-sector;
c. Indigenous Peoples sector;
d. Youth sector;
e. Women sector;
f. Education sector;
g. Commercial sector;
h. Industrial sector;
i. Health sector;
j. Cooperative sector;
k. Fisheries sector;
l. Transpoft sector;
m. Private sector.
D. The Barangay Council shall submit a resolution naming the
members of the Peace 911 sa Barangay to the Peace 911 - The
Center for Peacebuilding;
t
I
C. Only one (1) representative from each of the identified sectors shall
be allowed to be a member of the Peace 911 sa Barangay;

Ord. No. 089L-22
E. All barangays classified as agricultural shall have a member from the
farm sector;
F. All barangays with Indigenous Peoples Mandatory Representative
(IPMR) shal! have a member from the Indigenous Peoples sector.
G. All barangays along the coast with constituents engaged in fishing shall
have a member from the fisheries sector;
H. A barangay can identify the inclusion of one (1) sector not listed in this
Ordinance through a barangay resolution stating the relevance of the
sector, and approved by the City Peace 911 Council;
I. Changes in the present members of the Peace 911 sa Barangay shall
be apprcved by the Barangay Council and submitted to Peace 911-The
Center for Peacebuilding.
SECTION 11. POLICIES FORMULATED BY PEACE 911 SA BARANGAY - AII
policies created and adopted by Peace 911 sa Barangay shal! be submitted and approved
by the City Peace 911 Council. Approved policies by Peace 911 sa Barangay shall be
adopted by the Barangay Council through a barangay resolution.
SECTION 12.
- The following
offices shall provide support to the City Peace 911 Council and Peace 911 sa Barangay:
a. City Health Office;
b. City Agriculturist's ffice;
c. City Veterinarian's Office;
d. City Administrator's Office-City Economic Enterprise;
e. City Cooperative Development Office;
t. City Social Welfare and Development Office;
g. City Tourism Operations Office;
h. City Engineer's Office;
i. City Planning and Development Office;
j. City Local Civil Registrar;
k. City Environment and Natural Resources Office;
l. City Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Office;
m. Public Safety and Security Office;
n. All other offices as recommended and approved by the City Mayor.
SECTION 13.
- The City Mayor shall be allowed to
employ emergency personnel or technical advisers needed by the City Peace 911 Council
through Contract of Seruices or Job Orderc, based on the availability of budget pursuant to
SECTION 77 of Republic Act 7160, otherwise known as the Local Government Code of 1991
and subject to government rules and regulations on budgeting, accounting and auditing.
SECTION 14. @
- The City Peace 911 Council and Peace 911
sa Barangay shall convene at least once every quafter of the fiscal year. The members of
the City Peace 911 shall be convened anytime by the City Mayor or through a documented
invitation signed by majority of the members. Members of Peace 911 sa Barangay shall be
convened anytime by the designated chairperson. Schedule and frequency of periodic
meetings may be altered by the chairperson as the need arises and approved by majority of
its members but not less than the required meeting every quarter of the flscal year.
ii

Page
Ord.
8of8
No.0891-22
SECTION 15. HONORARIA - The Office of the City Mayor shal! provide the
members of the City Peace 911 Council with Honoraria. Honoraria for Peace 911 sa
Barangay shall be provided by the Barangay Council or the Office of the City Mayor. The
amount and frequency of Honoraria shall be approved by the City Mayor. Al! Honoraria
are subject to availability of funds and government rules and regulations on budgeting,
accounting and auditing.
SECTION 16. APPROPRIATIOil The appropriation necessary for the
implementation of this Ordinance shall be included by the City Budget Officer in the
proposed Annual Budget of the City Government.
SECTION 17. SEPARABILITY CLAUSE - If for any reason or reasons, any paft
or provision of this Ordinance shall be declared unconstitutional or invalid, other parts
or provisions thereof which are not affected thereby shall continue to be in full force
and effect.
SECTION 18. AUTOMATIC REVIEW - The SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod shall
automatically review this Ordinance once every three (3) years after its approval or
whenever the need for such review arises.
SECTION 19.
- This Ordinance shall take effect upon its approval.
ENACTED, February 22, 2022, by a unanimous vote of all the Members of the
Sanggunian, there being a quorum.
CERTIFIED CORRECT:
I \lvvvtit 1.t1,,,,,;
CHARITO N.FANTOS
Secretary to the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod
(City Government Depaftment Head II)^_/
ATTESTED:
UYAN
Temporary Presiding
cns/ser
h|wt- ft
APPROVED
APR 1 2 2o2L
2022
SARA Z. DUTERTE
- city Muyp
S
AN Z. OUTERTE
Acting City Mayor Y
TEIKA
TOPEZ
City Admin
AN ORDINANCE CREATING THE CITY PEACE 911 COUNCIL AND PEACE 911 SA BARANGAY, SUBJECTTO
ALL LAWS AND E}CSTING LEGAL RULES AND REGUI.ATIONS
ATTY
-
TOUIE
ATTESTED: