20th City Council
21s Regular Session
SERIES of 2022
PRESEilT:
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
ABSEilT:
Vice Mayor
Councilor
Advincula
Ofrice of the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod
Edgar P. Ibuyan Jr.
Marissa S. Abella
Nilo M. Abellera Jr.
Luna Maria Dominique S. Acosta
Bernard E. Al-ag
Wilberto E. A!-ag
Al Ryan S. Alejandre
Dante L. Aposto! Sr.
Conrado C. Baluran
Jessica M. Bonguyan
Louie John J. Bonguyan
Pilar C. Braga
Jonard C. Dayap
Edgar R. Ibuyan Sr.
Richlyn N. Justol-Baguilod
Diosdado Angelo Junior R. Mahipus
Rodolfo M. Mande
Jaffar U. Marohomsalic
Bonz Andre A. Militar
Temujin B. Ocampo
Myrna G. L'Dalodo-Ortiz
Albefto T. Ungab
Lorenzo Benjamin D. Villafuefte
Trisha Ann J. Villafuefte
Jesus Joseph P. Zozobrado III
- Presiding Officer
J. Melchor B. Quitain Jr.
Bai Hundra Cassandra Dominique N.
- OB-Acting City Mayor
- OB- Administered the
oath of the new
Punong Barangay of
Barangay Ula, Tugbok
District
OB-Represented the
City Mayor in the
turnover of the Balay
ng Pagbabago in
Barangay Lasang
Councilor Augusto Javier G. Campos III
ORDINANCE ilO. OIt4.22
SERIES of 2022
AN ORDINANCE FURTHER AMENDING ORDINANCE
NO. 5003, SERIES OF a997, OTHERWTSE KNOWN AS
*THE COCKFIGHTTI{G CODE OF DAVAO CITY," AS
AMENDED By ORDTNANCE NO. 0632-21, SERTES OF
202t

Ord. No. 0LL4-22
Be it ordained by the Honorable SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod of Davao City, in session
assembled, that:
SECTION l. II!! - This Ordinance shall be known as the *Ail ORDINANCE
FURTHER AMEilDTNG ORDTNANCE NO. 5003, SERTES OF 1997, OTHERWISE
KNOWN AS *THE COCKFTGHTTilG CODE OF DAVAO C[TY," AS AMENDED BY
oRDINANCE NO. 0632-21, SERTES OF 2021',.
SECTION 2. AMEilDMENTS - SECTION 5, and SECTION 6 paragraphs (a), (c), and (d), of
Ordinance No. 5003, SERIES of L997, as amended by Ordinance No. A632-ZL SERIES of 2021,
is hereby amended, to read as follows:
SECTION 5. LICENSE FEES FOR COCKPITS - There shall be collected the following
Mayo/s Permit Fees from cockpit operators/owners/licensees and cockpit personnel:
(a) From the owner/ operator/ licensees of the cockpit:
1. Application Filing Fee
2. Annual Cockpit Permit Fee
a. In Talomo, Agdao, Buhangin
b. In other districts
(b) From Cockpit Perconnel
1. Promoters/Hosts
2. Pit Manager
3. Referee
4. Bet Taker "Kristo/Llamador"
5. Bet Manager "Maciador/Kasador"
6. Gaffer "Mananari"
7. Cashier
8. Derby (Matchmaker)
9. Handler
P 100.00
10,000.00
5,000.00
P 1,000.00
400.00
400.00
200.00
400.00
200.00
400.00
400.00
400.00
SECTION 6. AMUSEMENT TAX ON ADMISSION
(a)Imposition of Tax-There is being levied and imposed upon the proprietor, lessee,
operator, or promoter of cockpits that charge admission or entrance fees within the
territorial jurisdiction of the City of Davao, a tax on admission fee in addition to the
taxes and fees imposed under Sections 5 and t hereof at the rate herein prescribed
based on the gross receipts from admission fees, to wit:
i. Regular hackfight
ii. Derby
l0o/o
30o/o
)ffi
)ffi(
(c)Time of Payment - The taxes herein imposed shall be collected as part and not in
addition to the price of admission Uckets at the time patrons or customers are
admitted to the amusement places or establishments.

Ord. No. ALl4-22
The taxes herein above imposed shall be due and payable within the first ten (10)
days of the month next following that for which they are due, by the proprietor,
lessee, operator, and promoter, and such taxes to be determined on the basis of a
true and complete return of the number of gross receipts from admission derived
during the preceding month. If the tax is not paid within the time fixed above, the
taxpayer shall be subject to such surcharges, interest, and penalties as prescribed
by this Ordinance.
(d) Administrative Provisions.
1. Remittance of Tax Surcharge for late remittance. - The proprietor, lessee,
operator, or promoter of cockpits shall withhold the amusement tax on admission.
The amusement tax withheld shall be remitted to the City Treasure/s Office within
the first ten (10) days of the month next following that for which they are due. The
proprietor, lessee, operator, or promoter concerned shall make a complete return
of the gross receipts derived during the preceding month which shall be the basis
for determining the tax due.
Failure to pay the tax within the time fixed herein above shall render those
concerned liable to a surcharge of twenty-five percent (25oh) of the original amount
plus an interest of two percent (2o/o) per month on the amount due until the tax is
fully paid but in no case shall the tota! interest on the unpaid amount or a poftion
thereof exceed thifi-six (36) months.
2. Admission Tickets - Admission Tickets will be used as one of the bases for
collecting the amusement tax imposed in this SECTION.
Cockpit operators must develop a unified application ffiem, to be turned over to
the City Government of Davao, that will allow sabungeros/players to purchase
admission tickets. Admission tickets must be dispensed accordingly.
Operators of cockpits shall keep a notice in big legible letters or numbers posted in
a conspicuous place in front of the ticket booths showing the total admission price,
which will include as a paft thereof the city amusement taxes corresponding to each
or kind of ticket.
3. Form of tickets, their registration - Every proprietor, lessee, operator, or promoter
of cockpit shall provide admission tickets which shall be serially numbered,
indicating therein the name of the amusement place, the price per ticket and the
kind of event-whether regular, derby or special event. The admission tickets must
be embedded with a QR Code which will be subject tur validation by the Office of
the City Treasurer, upon entry to the cockpit.
Whenever there is a change in the admission fee after registration, a notice to that
effect shall be registered with the Oty Treasurer and must be conspicuously posted
in a place of business for the information of the public.
Sub-numbering of such tickets is stricdy prohibited and the use of slugs and other
substitutes for admission tickets is stricdy prohibited.
Upon entry to the gate, the admission ticket must be presented to the
representative of the City Treasurer's Office for QR verification. The gatekeeper
shall then drop the admission ticket in a locked box or receptacle. The box or
receptacle shall only be opened by the representative of the Office of the City
Treasurer.

Ord. No. 0LL4-22
1. VerificaUon and Inspection of Cockpits - The City Treasurer shall post an employee
at the gate of cockpits for the purpose of veriffing all Uckets being sold thereat.
Likewise, another CTO personnel shall also be designated at the area as may be
provided by the operator, for the purpose of monitoring the winning bets garnered
by the operator per fight.
2. Additional Guidelines/Requirements to be observed by Cockpit Operators - The
following guidelines must be adopted by cockpit operatorc for the conduct of
cockfighting operations in the City of Davao:
(a)"NO ICKET, NO ENTRY'policy must be stricUy observed in cockpits. No person
must be allowed to enter the cockpit without presenting an admission ticket.
(b)Cockpit operatorc must provide the personnel of the CiU Treasurer's Office
access to an area where monitoring of amusement tickets and winning center bets
are possible.
(c)Cockpit operators must declare with the City Treasure/s Office the number of
admission tickets considered paft of the privileges granted to owners of fighting
cocks, upon payment of the Entry Fee. Only a maximum of three (3) individuals
can be admitted per paid Entry Fee.
(d)Cockpit Operators must develop or establish a unified application system, to be
turned over to the City Government of Davao, which must be able to meet the
following specifi cations:
d.1 IT Requirements
i. Set-up IT infrastructure that is secure, efftcient, and effective;
ii. Set-up back-up fur equipment and power to provide sufficient suppott to the
operation of the Event;
iii. Cockpits must have internet connectivity. To prevent any issues, cockpit
operators must set up a redundant internet connection; and,
iv. All cockpit operators in the City of Davao must adopt the unified system for
their cockpit operaUons to hasten the monitoring of gross receipts subject to
tax.
d.2. System Features
i. Bettors must be able to purchase system-generated admission tickets;
ii. Admission tickets must be serially numbered and must be embedded with a
QR Code for easier verification. Said tickets must reflect the minimum details,
including the price per ticket and kind of event;
iii. Allow registration of game pafticipants before sultadas can begin; and,
iv. Generate repofts on the total number of fights/sultadas, total winning bets
garnered by the cockpit operator, and total gross receipts on admissions. The
City Treasurer's Office must be given real-Ume full access to the detailed
record entry for audit purposes.
d.3. Ownership and Maintenance of System
i. Ownership of the unified application system, to be adopted by all cockpit
operators within the City of Davao, must be turned over to the City
Government, upon deployment for use by all cockpits, to ensure the integrity
of the system.

Ord. No. 4fl4-22
ii. The City Government of Davao shall exercise full control over the system,
including its databa*. The cockpit operators shall only be granted permission
to input data or entries necessary for the conduct of the event.
iii. In case there is a need to troubleshoot the system due to technical issues,
the City Government of Davao reserues the right to demand technical suppoft
from the cockpit operators to address the same. A Seruice Maintenance
Agreement must be executed by the cockpit operators and the City
Government of Davao to provide the details thereof.
SECTION 9 of Ordinance No. 5003, SERIES of L997, as amended by Ordinance No.
0632-2L, SERIES of 202L, shall be re-numbered to SECTION 11 and amended, to read as
follows:
SECTION 11. FEES - In addition to the taxes, fees, and other levies imposed by
the City under Sections 5, 6,7 and 8 hereof, the following fees shall be paid to the
City Treasurer, pursuant to the provisions of the Local Government Code of 1991
(R.A. No. 7L60) before any operation or activity can be conducted.
SPECIAT PERMIT FEE FOR COCKFIGHTING
(a) Special Cockfights (Pintakasi)
First three (3) days
Succeeding days
(b) Special Derby Assessment from Prcmoterc of:
Two-Cock Derby
Three-Cock Derby
Four-Cock Derby
Five-Cock Derby
More tlran five-cock derby
P 3,000.00
2,000.00/day
2,000.00
4,000.00
7,000.00
8,000.00
18,000.00
SECTION 13 of Ordinance No. 5003, SERIES of L997, as amended by Ordinance No.
0632-2L, SERIES of 202L, shall be re-numbered to SECTION 15 and amended, to read as
follows:
SECTION 15. PENAL CTAUSE - The penalty of fine not exceeding P5,000 or an
imprisonment of not more than one (1) year or both at the discreUon of the Court, shall
be imposed upon any individual found falsiffing the admission ticket and/or manipulating
or compromising the security and integrity of the unified application system.
Any individual who enters the cockpit arena without presenting an admission ticket shall
be fined not exceeding P3,000 or imprisonment of not more than one (1) year or both
at the discretion of the Court, and the violator's cock, hens, and eggs, and all bets
involved in the unlawful activity shall be confiscated in favor of the City Government, to
be turned over to the City Agriculturist and shal! be disposed of by the City Mayor in the
manner provided by law, rules, and regulations.
SECTION 3. ADDffiONAL PROVISIOI{S - The following provisions shall be included in
Ordinance No. 5003, SERIES of 1997, otherwise known as "THE NEW COCKFIGHTING CODE
OF DAVAO CffY", as amended by Ordinance No. 0632-21of 2021, to wit:

Ord. No. 0L14-22
SECTION 7. PLASADA TAX - There shall be imposed upon the proprietor/operator of
the cockpit a bx on the plasada amounting to 1olo of the total winning center bet.
The plasada tax shall be due and payable within the first ten (10) days of the month next
following that for which they are due and the same shall be remitted to the City Treasurer
within the said period.
Failure to pay the tax within the time fixed herein above shall render those concerned
liable to a surcharge of twenty-five percent (25o/o) of the original amount plus interest of
two percent (2olo) per month on the amount due until the tax is fully paid but in no case
shall the total interest on the unpaid amount or a portion thereof exceed thirty-six (36)
months.
SECTION 8. SULTADA FEE - There shall be imposed upon the proprietor/operator of
the cockpit fee per sultada amounting to the following:
Regular Hackfight
Derby and Special Events
200.00
500.00
Cancelled cockfights and cockfights with no winner (draw) shall not be subject to a
sultada fee.
The sultada fee shall be due and payable within the first ten (10) days of the month next
following that for which they are due and the same shall be remitted to the City Treasurer
within the said period.
Failure to pay the tax within the time fixed herein above shall render those concerned
liable to a surcharge of twenty-five percent (25o/o) of the original amount plus an interest
of two percent (2o/o) per month on the amount due until the tax is fully paid but in no
case shall the total interest on the unpaid amount or a portion thereof exceed thirty-six
(36) months.
SECTION 16. CITATION TICKET - A citation ticket shall be issued to any individual
who enters the cockpit arena without presenting an admission ticket. The Citation llcket
shall state, among others, the name and address of the violator, the specific violation
committed and the corresponding adminisffiative penalty.
The Philippine National Police (PNP) and such other apprcpriate enforcerc as
commissioned by the City Mayor shall have the power to apprehend violators of this
Ordinance and issue citation tickets.
The City Mayor may deputize Barangay Officials or representatives of the private sector,
non-government organizations, and government organizations in the strict
implementation of this Ordinance, as the need arises.
SECTION 17. NO CONTEST PROYISION - Any individual who is apprehended or
cited for violation of entering the cockpit arena without an admission ticket and who
does not wish to contest the violation and is willing to pay voluntarily the administrative
penalty imposed upon him/her prior to the filing of formal charges with the proper court
shall be allowed to pay a penalty of One Thousand Pesos (P1,000.00) with the City
Treasure/s Office to avoid being criminally prosecuted within three (3) days from
apprehension. Otherwise, the case shall be prosecuted in couft. The No Contest Provision
can only be availed once. All proceeds from the payment of the herein penalty imposed
shall accrue to the City's General Fund.

PageT of7
Ord. No. 0LI4-22
SECTION 4. RE-NUMBERING - The following Sections in Ordinance No. 5003, SERIES of
1997, as amended by Ordinance No. 0632-21, SERIES of 2021, shall be renumbered as
follows:
SECTION 7 (Cockfighting fficials) shall be renumbered to SECTION 9;
SECTION 8 (Licensing of Cockfighting Officials) shall be renumbered to SECTION 10;
SECTION 9 (Fees) shall be renumbered to SECTION 11;
SECTION 10 (Anti-Fraud Measures) shall be renumbered to SECTION L2;
SECTION 11 (Complaints and Protests) shall be renumbered to SECTION 13;
SECTION 12 (Suppletory Rules) shall be renumbered to SECTION 14;
SECTION 14 (Penal Clause) shall be renumbered to SECTION 15.
SECTION 5. SEPARABILIW CLAUSE - If for any reason, any SECTION or provision of this
Ordinance shall be held to be unconstitutional or invalid by competent authority, such
judgment or action shall not affect or impair the other sections or provisions hereof.
SECTION 6. REPEALING CLAUSE -All other city ordinances, Executive Orders and Rules
and Regulations, which are inconsistent with this Ordinance are hereby deemed amended,
repealed or modified accordingly.
SECTION 7. EFFECTMTY CLAUSE - This Ordinance shall take effect upon approval
hereof.
ENACTED, on the 5h day of December 2022, by a unanimous vote of all the
Members of the Sanggunian, there being a quorum.
CERTIFIED CORRECT:
*,Ml.rW
Secretary to the Sangg0niang Panlungsod
(City Govemment Department Head II)
ATTESTED:
R.
President
Temporary
cns/l{tq
APPROVED: DEC 2 3 2022 ,2022
SE
Z. DUTERTE
ATTESTED:
citv Mavp y
H. LAYOG
Acting
nistrator
AN ORDINANCE FURTHER
ORDINANCE NO. 5003, SERIES G L997, OTHERWISE KNOWN AS 'THE
ATTY.
-
.-I-
-G
COCKFIGHTING CODE OF DAVAO
," AS AMENDED BY ORDINANCE NO. 0632.2I, SERIES OF 2O2I