E)f
I21
2)
0Nc
CiW of 'Davao
19th City Counci!
4th Regular Session
SERIES of 2022
PRESENT:
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
ABSENT:
Vice Mayor SebastianZ. Duterte
Councilor Bonifacio E. Militar
Councilor J. Melchor B. Quitain Jr.
Edgar P. Ibuyan Jr.
- Temporary Presiding Officer
Ralph O. Abella
Nilo D. Abellera
Bai Hundra Cassandra Dominique N. Advincula
Wilberto E. Al-ag
Dante L. Apostol Sr.
Conrado C. Baluran
Jessica M. Bonguyan
Louie John J. Bonguyan
Pilar C. Braga
Augusto Javier G. Campos III
Danilo C. Dayanghirang
Jonard C. Dayap
Edgar R. Ibuyan Sr.
Richlyn N. Justol-Baguilod
Pamela A. Librado-Morata
Diosdado Angelo Junior R. Mahipus
Rodolfo M. Mande
Jaffar U. Marohomsalic
Myrna G. LDalodo-Ortiz
Antoinette G. Principe-Castrodes
Alberto T. Ungab
Mary Joselle D. Villafuerte
Jesus Joseph P. Zozobrado trI
- On Official Business
ORDIilANCE NO. 0866.22
SERIES of 2022
AN ORDINANCE UPDATIilG THE ORGANIZATIONAL
STRUCTURE OF THE CITY DISASTER RISK REDUCTION
AND MANAGEMENT OFFTCE (CDRRMO) AND PROVTDTNG
FUNDS THEREOF, SUBJECT TO AtL 1AWS AND EXISTING
TEGAL RUTES At{D REGULATIONS
at

Ord. No. 0866-22
Be it ordained by the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod of Davao CiU in session assembled,
that
SECTION 1. rIItE - This Ordinance shall be known as 'AN ORDINANCE
UPDATING THE ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE OF THE CITY DISASTER RISK
REDUCTTON AND MANAGEMENT OFFTCE (CDRRMO) AND PROVTDTNG FUNDS
THEREOF, SUBJECT TO ALt LAWS AND EXISTTNG LEGAL RULES AND
REGUIATIONS".
SECTION 2. DECLARATION OF PRINCIPLES AND POLICIES
A. Sedion 3 Rule I of the Implementing Rules and Regulations of Republic Act No.
10121 Declaration of Poliq - It is the Poliq of the State to:
a. Uphold the people's constitutional rights to life and property by addressing the
root causes of vulnerabilities to disasters, strengthening the country's
institutional capacity for disaster risk reduction and management, and building
the resilience of local communities to disasters including climate change
impacts;
b. Adhere to and adopt the universal norms, principles, and standards of
humanitarian assistance such as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights,
UN Guiding Principles and Guidelines on Internal Displacement and Durable
Solutions, Convention on the Elimination of Discrimination Against Women
(CEDAW), Convention on the Rights of the Child and the global effoft on risk
reduction as concrete expression of the country's commitment to overcome
human sufferings due to recuning disasters;
c. Incorporate internationally accepted principles and guidelines of disaster risk
management in the creaUon and implementation of national, regional and Ioca!
sustainable development and poverty reduction strategies, policies, plans and
budgets;
d. Adopt a disaster risk reduction and management approach that is holistic,
comprehensive, integrated, and proactive in lessening the socioeconomic and
environmental impacts of disasters including climate change, and promote the
involvement and pafticipation of all sectors and all stakeholders concerned, at
all levels, especially the local community;
e. Develop, promote, and implement a comprehensive National Disaster Risk
Reduction and Management Plan (NDRRMP) that aims to strengthen the
capacity of the national government and the Local Government Units (LGUs),
together with paftner stakeholders, to build the disaster resilience of
communities, and - to institutionalize arrangements and measures for reducing
disaster risks, including projected climate risks, and enhancing disaster
preparedness and response capabilities at all levels;
f. Adopt and implement a coherent, comprehensive, integrated, efficient and
responsive disaster risk reduction program incorporated in the development
plan at various levels of government adhering to the principles of good
\i

Ord. No. 0866-22
governance such as transparency and accountability within the context of
povefi alleviation and environmental protection;
g. Mainstream disaster risk reduction and climate change adaptation and
mitigation in development processes such as policy fonnulation, socioeconomic
development planning, budgeting, and governance, particularly in the areas of
environment, agriculture, water, energy, health, education, poverty reduction,
land-use and urban planning, budgeting, and governance, pafticularly in the
areas of environment, planning, public infrastructure, and housing, among
others;
h. Institutionalize the policies, structures, coordination mechanisms and programs
with continuing budget appropriation on disaster risk reduction from national
down to local levels towards building a disaster-resilient nation and
communities;
i. Mainstream disaster risk reduction into the peace process and conflict
resolution approaches in order to minimize loss of lives and damage to
propefi, and ensure that communities in conflict zones including Internally
Displaced Percons (IDPs) can immediately go back to their normal lives during
periods of intermittent conflicts;
j. Ensure that disaster risk reduction and climate change measures are gender
responsive, sensitive to indigenous knowledge systems and cultures, and
respectful of human rights;
k. Recognize the local risk patterns across the country and strengthen the
capacity of LGUs for disaster risk reduction and management through
decentralized powers, responsibilities, and resources at the regional and local
levels;
l. Recognize and strengthen the capacities of LGUs and communities in mitigating
and preparing for, responding to, and recovering from the impact of disasters;
m. Engage the participation of Civil Society Organizations (CSOs), the private
sector and volunteers in the governmenfs disaster risk reduction programs
towards complementation of resources and effective delivery of services to the
citizenry;
n. Develop and strengthen the capacities of vulnerable and marginalized groups
to mitigate, prepare for, respond to, and recover from the effects of disasters;
o. Enhance and implement a program where humanitarian aid workers,
communities, health professionals, government aid agencies, donors, and the
media are educated and trained on how they can actively support breastfeeding
before and during a disaster and/or an emergenry; and

Ord. No. 0866-22
p. Provide maximum care, assistance and seruices to individuals and families
affected by disaster, implement emergency rehabilitation projects to lessen the
impact of disaster, and facilitate resumption of normal social and economic
activiUes.
B. SECTION 12 (a) of Republic Act No. 10121states that "there shal! be established a
Local Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Office ([DRRMO) in every
province, city and municipality, and a BDRRMC in very barangay which shall be
responsible for setting the direction, development, implementation and
coordination of disaster risk management programs within their territorial
jurisdiction";
C. SECTION 6 of Republic Act No. 10121states "SECTION 6. Local Ordinance- The
local sanggunian concerned shall enact the appropriate ordinance to create the
Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Office (DRRMO) including the allocation
of necessary staffing/personnel and budget."
D. SECTION 13 of Republic Act No. 10121 states "SECTION 13. Accreditation,
Mobilization, and Protection of DisasterVolunteerc and National Service
Reserue Corps, CSOs and the Private Sector. - The government agencies,
CSOs, private sector and LGUs may mobilize individuals or organized volunteers to
augment their respective personnel complement and logistical requirements in the
delivery of disaster risk reduction programs and activities. The agencies, CSOs,
private sector, and LGUs concerned shall take full responsibility for the
enhancement welfare and protection of volunteers, and shall submit the list of
volunteers to the OCD, through the LDRRMOS, for accreditation and inclusion in
the database of community disaster volunteers.
A national roster of Accredited Community Disaster Volunteers (ACDVS), National
Seruice Reserue Corps, CSOs and the private sector shall be maintained by the
OCD through the LDRRMOS. Accreditation shall be done at the municipal or city
level."
E. Rule 6 - Local Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Office (LDRRMO) SECTION
1 of the Implementing Rules and Rqulations (IRR) of Republic Ad No. 10121
states that "There is hereby created an LDRRMO in every province, city and
municipality under the Office of the Governor, City or Municipal Mayor,
respectively, and a Barangay Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Committee
(BDRRMC) in every barangay to be headed by the Punong Barangay.";
F. Rule 6 - Local Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Office (LDRRMO) SECTION
5 of the Implementing Rules and Rqulations (IRR) of Republic Act No. 10121
states "SECTION 5. The BDRRMC - It shall be a regular committee of the existing
BDC and shall be subject thereto. The punong barangay shall facilitate and ensure
the participation of at least two (2) CSO representatives from existing and active
community-based people's organizations representing the most vulnerable and
marginalized groups in the barangay";

Ord. No.0866-22
G. The Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction 2015-2030 was adopted at the
Third UN World Conference on Disaster Risk Reduction in Sendai, Japan on March 18,
20t5, and outlines seven clear targets and the following four priorities for action to
prevent new and reduce existing disaster risks: (i) Understanding disaster risk; (ii)
Strengthening disaster risk governance to manage disaster risk; (iii) Investing in
disaster reduction for resilience; and (iv) Enhancing disaster preparedness for effective
response, and to "Build Back Better" in recovery rehabilitation and reconstruction;
H. Davao City Ordinance No. 0368-15, SERIES of 2015, "An Ordinance Approving the
Creation and Establishment of the City Disaster Risk Reduction and Management
Office (CDRRMO)', states in"SECTION 6.1 that the CDRRMO shall be under the Office
of the Oty Mayof';
I. National Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Council (NDRRMC) Memorandum
Circular No. 64, SERIES of 2021(dated June 8, 2021) established the Guidelines on the
Accreditation, Mobilization, and Protection of Community Disaster Volunteers;
J. Philippine National Volunteer Seruice Coordinating Agency Office Circular No. XIV,
SERIES of 2021 (signed October t, 2021) - Registration of NGO's engaging DRRM
Foreign Volunteers as Volunteer Mobilizing Organizations (VMOs) Pursuant to
NDRRIvIC Memorandum Circular 64 S. 202L.
K. Project NOAH - Department of Science and Technology's (DOSD response for a more
accurate, integrated, and responsive disaster prevention and mitigation system,
especially in high-risk areas throughout the Philippines. The Project will harness
technologies and management seruices for disaster risk reduction activities offered by
the DOST through PAGASA, PHIVOLCS, and the DOST-Advanced Science and
Technology Institute (ASn), in paftnership with the UP National Institute of Geological
Sciences and the UP College of Engineering;
Project NOAH (I{ationwide Operational Assessment of Hazad) is the
Philippines'primary disaster risk reduction and management prcgram. Currently under
the University of the Philippines, it was initially administered by the Depaftment of
Science and Technology (DOSD from20LZto20L7.
SECTION 3. DEFINITION OF TERMS AND ACRONYMS
Expansion
The increase of something in size, number or impoftance (Cambridge
Dictionary)
Conversion
The process of convefting something from one thing to another (Cambridge
Dictionary)
Organizational
Structure
Defined as the process of creating an organization's structure. The challenge
for managers is to design an organizational structure that allows employees
to work effectively and efficiently. It is how job tasks are formally divided,
grouped, and coordinated within an organization. When managers develop
or change the structure, they are engaged in organizational design, a process
that involves decisions about six elements: work specialization,
departnentalization, chain of command, span of control, centralization and
dece ntra I ization, a nd forma I izati on. ( Fu nda m e nta ls of Ma n a geme n t; Step h e n
P. Robinnn, San Diqo Univercity; Mary Coulter, Misouri State University;
David A. D*enzq @astal Grclina Univercity; Copyright 202q 2UZ 2015
Pearson Educatio4 Inc,)

Ord. No. 0866-22
Update
To make something more modern or suitable for use now by adding
new information or changing its design; A new form of something
that existed at an earlier time (Cambridqe Dictionary)
R.A. 10121
Republic Act No. 10121 An Act Strengthening the Philippine Disaster
Risk Reduction and Management System, providing for the National
Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Framework and
Institutionalizing the National Disaster Risk Reduction and
Management Plan, Appropriating Funds Therefor and for Other
Purposes
IRR
Implementing Rules and Regulations
SG
Salary Grade
NGO
Non-Government Orga n ization
DRRM
Disaster Risk Reduction and Management
NDRRMC
National Disaster Risk Reduction and
Council
Management
BDRRMC
Barangay Disaster Risk Reduction and Management
Committee
CDRRMO
City Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Office
LDRRMO
Local Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Office
LDRRMP
Local Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Plan
LDRRMC
Local Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Council
LDC
Local Development Council
LDRRMF
Local Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Fund
LGU
Local Government Unit
cso
Rule 2 SECTION 1.d defines CSOs as Civil Society Organizations - nonstate actors whose aims are neither to generate profits nor seek
governing power. CSOs unite people to advance shared goals and
interests. They have a presence in public !ife, expressing interests
and values of their members or others, and are based on social,
ethical, cultural, scientific, religious or philanthropic and other
considerations. CSOs include Non-Government Organizations
(NGOs), professional associations, foundations, independent
research institutes, Community-Based Organizations (CBOs), faithbased organizations, people's organizations, social movements, and
labor unions.
ACDV
Accredited Community Disaster Volunteers
ocD
Office of Civil Defense
DILG
Department of the Interior and Local Government
DBM
Depaffnent of Budget and Management
CSC
Civil Service Commission
cMo
City Mayo/s Office
QRF
Quick Response Fund - These are built-in budgetary allocations that
represent pre-disaster or standby funds for agencies in order to
immediately assist areas stricken by catastrophes and crises.
(Depaffnent of Budget and Management)

PageT of 54
Ord. No. 0866-22
Adaptation
The adjustrnent in natural or human systems in response to actual
or expected climaUc stimuli or their effects, which moderates harm
or exploits beneficial opportunities (SECTION 3.a of RA 10121)
Capacity
A combinaUon of all strengths and resources available within a
community, society or organization that can reduce the level of risk,
or effects of a disaster. Capacity may include infrastuucture and
physical means, institutions, societal coping abilities, as well as
human knowledge, skills and collective attributes such as social
relationships, leadership and management. Capacity may also be
described as capability. (SECTION 3.b of RA 10121)
Climate Change
A change in climate that can be identified by changes in the mean
and/or variability of its propefties and that persists for an extended
period typically decades or longer, whether due to natural variability
or as a rcsult of human activity. (SECTION 3.d of RA 10121)
CBDRRM
"Community-Based Disaster Risk Reduction and Management" - a
process of disaster risk reduction and management in which at risk
communities are actively engaged in the idenUfication, analysis,
treatment, monitoring and evaluation of disaster risks in order to
reduce their vulnerabilities and enhance their capaciUes, and where
the people are at the heart of decision-making and implementation
of disaster risk reduction and management activities. (SECTION 3.e of
RA 10121)
Complex
Emergency
A form of human-induced emergency in which the cause of the
emergency as well as the assistance to the affiicted is complicated
by intense level of poliUcal considerations. (SECTION 3.f of RA 10121)
Contingency
Planning
A management process that analpes specific potential events or
emerging situations that might threaten society or the environment
and establishes arrcngements in advance to enable timely, effective
and appropriate responses to such events and situations. (SECTION
3.q of RA 10121)
A serious disruption of the functioning of a community or a society
involving widespread human, material, economic or environmental
losses and impacB, which exceeds the ability of the affected
community or society to cope using its own resources. Disasters are
often described as a result of the combination of: the exposure to a
hazard; the conditions of vulnerability that are present; and
insufficient capacity or measures to reduce or cope with the potential
negative consequences. Disaster impacts may include loss of life,
injury, disease and other negaUve effects on human, physical,
mental and social well-being, together with damage to propefi,
destruction of assets, loss of seruices, socialand economic disruption
and environmental deqradation. (SECTION 3.h of RA 10121)
Disaster Mitigation
The lessening or limitation of the adverse impacts of hazards and
related disasters. Mitigation measures encompass engineering
techniques and hazard-resistant construction as well as improved
environmental policies and public awareness. (SECTION 3.i of RA
10121)
Disaster

Ord. No. 0866-22
Disaster
Preparedness
The knowledge and capacities developed by governments,
professional response and recovery organizations, communities and
individuals to eftctively anUcipate, respond to, and recover from,
the impacts of likely, imminent or current hazard events or
conditions. Preparedness action is canied out within the context of
disaster risk reduction and management and aims to build the
capacities needed to efficiently manage all types of emergencies and
achieve orderly transitions from response to sustained recovery.
Preparedness is based on a sound analysis of disaster risk and good
linkages with early waming systems, and includes such activities as
contingency planning, stockpiling of equipment and supplies, the
development of arrangemenb for coordination, evacuation and
public information, and associated training and field exercises. These
must be supported by formal instihrtional, legal and budgetary
capacities. (SECTION 3j of RA 10121)
Disaster
Prevention
The outright avoidance of adverse impacts of hazards and related
disasters. It expresses the concept and intention to completely avoid
potential adverse impacts through action taken in advance such as
construction of dams or embankments that eliminate flood risks,
land-use regulations that do not permit any settlement in high risk
zones, and seismic engineering designs that ensure the survival and
function of a critical building in any likely earthquake. (SECTION 3.k of
RA 10121)
Disaster Response
The provision of emergency services and public assistance during or
immediately after a disaster in order to save lives, reduce health
impacts, ensure public safety and meet the basic subsistence needs
of the people affected. Disaster response is predominantly focused
on immediate and short-term needs and is sometimes called
"disaster relief'. (SECTION 3.1 of RA 10121)
Disaster Risk
The potential disaster losses in lives, health status, livelihood, assets
and seruices, which could occur to a pafticular community or a
society over some specified future time period. (SECTION 3.m of RA
10121)
Disaster Risk
Reduction
The concept and practice of reducing disaster risks through
systematic efforts to analyze and manage the causal factors of
disasters, including through reduced oeosures to hazards, lessened
vulnerability of people and prcpe$r, wise management of land and
the environment, and improved preparedness for adverse events.
(SECTION 3.n of RA 10121)
Disaster Risk
Reduction and
Management
The systematic process of using administrative directives,
organizations, and operational skills and capacities to implement
strategies, policies and improved coping capacities in order to lessen
the adverse impacts of hazards and the possibility of disaster.
Prospective disaster risk reduction and management refers to risk
reduction and management activities that address and seek to avoid
the development of new or increased disaster risks, especially if risk
reduction policies are not put in place. (SECTION 3.o of RA 10121)
Disaster Risk
Reduction and
Management
Information
System
A specialized database which contains, among others, information
on disasters and their human material, economic and environmental
impact, risk assessment and mapping and vulnerable groups.
(SECTION 3.p of RA 10121)

Page 9 of54
Ord. No. A866-22
Early Warning
System
The set of capacities needed to generate and disseminate timely and
meaningfu! warning information to enable individuals, communities
and organizations threatened by a hazard to prepare and to act
appropriately and in sufficient time to reduce the possibility of harm
or loss. A people-centered early warning system necessarily
comprises four (4) key elements: knowledge of the risks; monitoring,
analysis and forecasting of the hazards; communication or
dissemination of alerts and warnings; and local capabilities to
respond to the warnings received. The expression "end-to-end
waming system" is also used to emphasize that warning systems
need to span allsteps from hazard detection to community response.
(SECTION 3.q of RA 10121)
Emergency
Unforeseen or sudden occurrence, especially danger, demanding
immediate action. (SECTION 3.r of RA 10121)
Emergenry
Management
The organization and management of resources and responsibilities
for addressing all aspects of emergencies, in pafticular
preparedness, response and initial recovery steps. (SECTION 3.s of RA
10121)
Exposure
The degree to which the elements at risk are likely to experience
hazard events of different maqnitudes. (SECTION 3.t of RA 10121)
Geographic
Information
System
A database which contains, among others, geo-hazard assessments,
information on climate change, and climate risk reduction and
management. (SECTION 3.u of RA 10121)
Hazard
A dangerous phenomenon, substance, human activity or condition
that may cause loss of life, injury or other health impacts, property
damage, loss of livelihood and seruices, social and economic
disruption, or environmental damaqe. (SECTION 3.v of RA 10121)
The process undel€ken by public authorities to identiff, evaluate
and decide on different options br the use of land, including
consideration of long-term economic, social and environmental
objectives and the implications for different communities and
interest groups, and the subsequent formulation and promulgation
of plans that describe the permitted or acceptable uses. (SECTION 3.w
of RA 10121)
Mitigation
Structural and non-structural measures undertaken to limit the
adverse impact of natural hazards, environmental degradation, and
technological hazards and to ensure the ability of at-risk
communities to address vulnerabiliUes aimed at minimizing the
impact of disasters. Such measures include, but are not limited to,
hazard-resistant construction and engineering works, the
formulation and implementation of plans, programs, projects and
activiUes, awareness raising, knowledge management, policies on
land-use and resource management, as well as the enforcement of
comprehensive land-use planning, building and safety standards,
and leqislation. (SECTION 3.x of RA 10121)
Post Disaster
Recovery
The restoration and improvement where appropriate, of faciliUes,
livelihood and living conditions of disaster-affected communities,
including effiorb to reduce disaster risk factors, in accordance with
the principles of "build back bette/'. (SECTION 3.aa of RA 10121)
Land-Use
Planning

Ord. No.0866-22
Preparedness
Pre-disaster actions and measures being undeftaken within the
context of disaster risk reduction and management and are based
on sound risk analysis as well as predisaster activities to aveft or
minimize loss of life and property such as, but not limited to,
community organizing, training, planning, equipping, stockpiling,
hazard mapping, insuring of assets, and public information and
education initiatives. This also includes the
developmenVenhancement of an overall preparedness strategy,
poliry, institutional structure, warning and forecasting capabilities,
and plans that define measures geared to help at-risk communities
safeguard their lives and assets by being aleft to hazards and taking
appropriate action in the face of an imminent threat or an actual
disaster. (SECTION 3.bb of RA 10121)
Private Sector
The key actor in the realm of the economy where the central social
concern and process are the mutually beneficial production and
distribution of goods and seryices to meet the physical needs of
human beings. The private sector comprises private corporations,
households and nonprofit institutions seruing households. (SECTION
3.cc of RA 10121)
Public Sector
Employees
All persons in the civil service. (SECTION 3.dd of RA 10121)
Rehabilitation
Measures that ensure the ability of affected communities/areas to
restore their normal level of functioning by rebuilding livelihood and
damaged infrastructures and increasing the communities'
orqanizational capacity. (SECTION 3.ee of RA 10121)
Resilience
The ability of a system, community or society exposed to hazards to
resist, absorb, accommodate and recover from the effects of a
hazard in a timely and efficient manner, including through the
preseruation and restoration of its essential basic structures and
functions. (SECTION 3.ff of RA 10121)
Response
Any concefted effoft by two (2) or more agencies, public or private,
to provide assistance or intervention during or immediately after a
disaster to meet the life preservation and basic subsistence needs of
those people affected and in the restoration of essential public
activiUes and facilities. (SECTION 3.ss of RA 10121)
Risk
The combination of the probability of an event and its negative
consequences. (SECTION 3.hh of RA 10121)
Risk Assessment
A methodology to determine the nature and extent of risk by
analyzing potential hazards and evaluating existing conditions of
vulnerability that together could potentially harm exposed people,
property, seruices, livelihood and the environment on which they
depend. Risk assessments with associated risk mapping include: a
review of the technical characteristics of hazards such as their
location, intensity, frequency and probability; the analysis of
exposure and vulnerability including the physical, social, health,
economic and environmental dimensions; and the evaluation of the
effectiveness of prevailing and alternative coping capacities in
respect to likely risk scenarios. (SECTION 3.ii of RA 10121)
J.il

Ord. No. 0866-22
sEcrloil 4.
MANAGEMENT OFFICE (CDRRMO) - The City Risk Reduction and Management Office
(CDRRMO) shall be converted from a Division under the City Mayor's Offtce to a regular
department of the City Government of Davao pursuant to the Civil Service Commission's
Omnibus Rules on Appointments and Other Human Resource Actions.
Risk Management
The systematic approach and practice of managing uncertainty to
minimize potential harm and loss. It comprises risk assessment and
analysis, and the implementation of strategies and specific actions to
control, reduce and transfer risks. It is widely practiced by
organizations to minimize risk in invesfrnent decisions and to address
operational risks such as those of business disruption, production
failure, environmental damage, social impacts and damage from fire
and natural hazards. (SECTION 3.ii of RA 10121)
Risk Transfer
The process of formally or informally shifting the financial
consequences of pafticular risks from one party to another whereby
a household, community, enterprise or state authority will obtain
resources from the other pafty after a disaster occurs, in exchange
for ongoing or compensatory social or financial benefits provided to
that other party. (SECTION 3.kk of RA 10121)
State of Calamity
A condition involving mass casualty and/or major damages to
propefi, disruption of means of livelihoods, roads and normal way
of life of people in the affected areas as a result of the occurrence
of natural or human-induced hazard. (SECTION 3.ll of RA 10121)
Sustainable
Development
Development that meets the needs of the present without
compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own
needs. It contains within it two (2) key concepts: (1) the concept of
"J'reeds", in pafticular, the essential needs of the world's poor, to
which overriding priority should be given; and (2) the idea of
limitations imposed by the state of technology and social
organizations on the environmenfs ability to meet present and
future needs. It is the harmonious integration of a sound and viable
economy, responsible governance, social cohesion and harmony,
and ecological integrity to ensure ilrat human development now and
through future generations is a life-enhancing process. (SECTION
3.mm of RA 10121)
Vulnerability
The characteristics and circumstances of a community, system or
asset that make it susceptible to the damaging effects of a hazard.
Vulnerability may arise from various physical, social, economic, and
environmental factors such as poor design and construction of
buildings, inadequate protection of assets, lack of public information
and awareness, limited official recognition of risks and preparedness
measures, and disregard for wise environmental management.
(SECTION 3.nn of RA 10121)
Vulnerable and
marginalized
groups
Those that face higher exposure to disaster risk and poverty
including, but not limited to, women, children, elderly, differentlyabled people, and ethnic minorities. (SECTION 3.oo of RA 10121)
R.A. 1080
Republic Act 1080 An Act Declaring the BAR and Board
examinations as Civil Seruice Examinations
Central 911
The Central Communications and Emergency Response Center was
established on September 27, 20A2 to provide a centralized and
integrated system that links the government's resources to the
emerqency needs of the constituents of Davao CiW

Ord. No. 0866-22
A. The City Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Office (CDRRMO), a division
under the Office of the City Mayor, shall become a regular departnent of the City
Government of Davao.
B. The CDRRMO shall be headed by a City Government Department Head II with
Salary Grade 26.
C. The City Government Assistant Depaflrnent Head II shall be the assistant
Department Head with Salary Grade 24.
D. The CDRRMO shall be composed of five (5) divisions with the respective sections
1. Administration and Training Division
a. Administrative SECTION
b. Training SECTION
2. Research and Planning Division
a. Research SECTION
b. Planning SECTION
3. Operations and Warning Division
a. Integrated Public Aleft and Warning SECTION
b. Incident Assessment and Monitoring SECTION
4. Local Emergenry Communications and Response Division (Central 911)
a. Emergency Communications SECTION
b. Emergency Response SECTION
5. Information and Communication Technology Division.
a. Systems SECTION
b. Operations and Maintenance SECTION
E. The CDRRMO shall adhere to its vision and mission as a regular depaftmenU
1. The CDRRMO envisions a harmonious city that is resilient to natural and
human-induced disasters, through proactive stances and effofts of the office,
communities are empowered, strengthening collective disaster risk reduction
and management capabilities.
2. The CDRRMO is geared towards Ieading the City in planning and coordinating
disaster risk reduction and management effofts among agencies, barangays,
and individuals. Education campaigns are also integral to the operations of
the office, building capaciUes of communities and stakeholders in addressing
disaster and climate change vulnerabilities. Efforts of the office are also
cemented by institutionalizing policies, structures, coordinating mechanisms,
building disaster-resilient communities in the city. The office is also driven to
engage government institutions, civil society organizations, and the private
sector in disaster risk reduction programs.

Ord. No. 0866-22
SECTION 5.
REDUCTIOil AND MANAGEMENT OFFICE (CDRRMO) - The City Disaster Risk Reduction
and Management Office (CDRRMO) shall perfurm the following functions with impartiality given
the emerging challenges brought by disasters of our times and fulfilling SECTION 12(c) of
Republic Act No. 10121:
A. Design, program, and coordinate disaster risk reduction and management activities
consistent with the National Council's standards and guidelines;
B. Facilitate and suppoft risk assessments and contingency planning activities at the local
level;
C. Consolidate !oca! disaster risk information which includes natural hazards,
vulnerabilities, and climate change risks, and maintain a local risk map;
D. Organize and conduct training, orientation, and knowledge management activities on
disaster risk reduction and management at the local level;
E. Operate a multi-hazard early warning system, linked to disaster risk reduction to provide
accurate and timely advice to national or local emergency response organizations and
to the general public, through diverse mass media, particularly radio, landline
communications, and technologies for communication within rural communities;
F. Formulate and implement a comprehensive integrated LDRRMP in accordance with the
national, regional and provincial framework, and policies on disaster risk reduction in
close coordination with the Local Development Councils (LDCs);
G. Prepare and submit to the loal anggunian through the LDRRMC and the LDC the
annual CDRRMO Plan and budget, the proposed programming of the LDRRMF, other
dedicated disaster risk reduction and management resources, and other regular funding
source/s and budgetary suppoft of the LDRRMO/BDRRMC;
H. Conduct continuous disaster monitoring and mobilize instrumentalities and entities of
the LGUs, CSOs, private groups and organized volunteers, to utilize their facilities and
resources for the protection and preseruation of life and propefties during emergencies
in accordance with existing policies and procedures;
I. Identiff, assess, and manage the hazards, vulnerabilities and risks that may occur in
their locality;
J. Disseminate information and raise public awareness about those hazards, vulnerabilities
and risks, their nature, effects, early warning signs and counter-measures;
K. Identiff and implement cost-effective risk reduction measures/strategies;
L. Maintain a database of human resource, equipment, directories, and location of critical
infrastructures and their capacities sudr as hospitals and evacuation centers;
I

Ord. No. 0866-22
M. Develop, strengthen and operationalize mechanisms for partnership or networking with
the private sector, CSOs, and volunteer groups;
N. Take all necessary steps on a continuing basis to maintain, provide, or arrange the
provision of, or to otherwise make available, suitably-trained and competent personnel
for the effective civil defence and disaster risk reduction and management in its area;
O. Organize, train, equip and superuise the local emergency response teams and the
ACDVS, ensuring that humanitarian aid workers are equipped with basic skills to assist
mothers to breastfeed;
P. Respond to and manage the adverse effects of emergencies and carry out recovery
activities in the affected area, ensuring that there is an efficient mechanism for
immediate delivery of food, shelter and medical supplies for women and children,
endeavor to create a special place where internally-displaced mothers can find help with
breastfeeding, feed and care fur their babies and give support to each other;
Q. Within its area, promote and raise public awareness of and compliance with this
Ordinance and legislative provisions relevant to the purpose of this Ordinance and RA
10121;
R. Serve as the secretariat and executive arm of the LDRRMC;
S. Coordinate other disaster risk reduction and management activities;
T. Establish linkage/network with other LGUs for disaster risk reduction and emergency
response purposes;
U. Recommend through the LDRRMC the enactnent of local Ordinances consistent with
the requirements of this Ordinance and RA 10121;
V. Implement policies, approved plans and programs of the LDRRMC consistent with the
requirements of this Ordinance and RA 10121;
W. Establish a City Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Operations Center;
X. Prepare and submit, through the LDRRMC and the LDC, the repoft on the utilization of
the LDRRMF and other dedicated disaster risk reduction and management resources to
the local Commission on Audit (COA), copy furnish the regional director of the OCD and
the Local Government Operations Officer of the DILG; and
Y. Act on other matters that may be authorized by the LDRRMC pursuant to the provisions
of R.A. 10121.
SECTION 6.
THE CDRRMO - The structural organization of the CDRRMO shall be composed of five (5)
divisions with their respective functions.

Ord. No. 0866-22
A. Administrative and Training Division
1. Plans, directs and coordinates functions regarding personnel administraUon, records
management and other related administrative functions;
2. Formulates administrative policies to improve existing systems and procedures for
effective and efficient delivery of services;
3. Oversees implementation of office policies and enforcement of appropriate
sanctions;
4. Coordinates office activities and operations to secure efficiency and compliance to
existing office policies;
5. Prepares and submits documents relative to the operation of the office such as, but
not limited to annual accomplishment repofts, annual procurement plan, project
designs, development plans, and such other related documents as required by
higher authorities, LFC, CPDO, COA, and other agencies;
6. Identifies, assesses and manages the hazards, vulnerabilities and risks that may
occur in their locality;
7. Organizes and conducts training, orientation and knowledge management activities
on Disaster Risk Reduction Management (DRRM) at the local level;
8. Disseminates information and raises public awareness about those hazards and
vulnerabilities;
9. Takes all necessary steps on a continuing basis to maintain, provide or arrange the
provision of, or to otherwise make available, suitably-trained and competent
personnel for effective civil defense and DRRM in its area;
10.Organizes, trains, equips and superuises the local emergency response teams and
the Accredited Community Disaster Volunteers (ACDVS) ensuring that humanitarian
aid workers are equipped with basic skills to assist mothers to breastfeed;
11.Within its area, promotes and raises public awareness of, and compliance with RA
10121 and legislative provisions relevant to the purpose of the latter;
12.Implements policies, approves plans and programs of the LDRRMC consistent with
the policies and guidelines laid down in RA 10121;
13.Trains the most vulnerable sectors (women, children, senior citizens and PWDs) in
DRRM, especially in disaster preparedness;
14. Performs other functions consistent with the provisions of this Ordinance and that
of R.A. t0L2L;

Ord. No. 0866-22
B. Operations and Warning Division
1. Operates a multi-hazard eady warning system, linked to Disaster Risk Reduction
(DRR) to provide accurate and timely advice to national or local emergency response
organizations and to the general public, through diverse mass media, particularly,
landline communications, and technologies for communication within rural areas;
2. Conducts continuous disaster monitoring and mobilize instrumentalities and entities
of the LGUs, CSOs, private groups and organized volunteers, to utilize their facilities
and resources for the protection and preservation of life and propefties during
emergencies in accordance with existing policies;
3. Develops, strengthens and operationalizes mechanisms for paftnership or
networking with the private sector, CSOs and volunteer groups;
4. Responds to and manages the adverse effects of emergencies and carry out
recovery activities in the affected area, ensuring that there is an efficient mechanism
for immediate delivery of food, shelter and medical supplies for women and children,
endeavours to create a specia! place where internally-displaced mothers can find
help for breastfeeding, feed and care for their babies and give support to each;
5. Coordinates other DRRM activities;
6. Establishes Iinkage and/or network with other LGUs for DRR and emergency
response;
7. Establishes provincial, city or municipal, and barangay DRRM operations;
8. Gives early warning to the most vulnerable sectors (women, children, senior citizens
and PWDs) to respond to their needs;
9. Responds to and manages the adverce effects of emergency and carry out recovery
activities to the most vulnerable areas especially to the vulnerable sectors (women,
children, senior citizens and PWDs);
l0.Peforms other functions consistent with the provisions of this Ordinance and that
of R.A. L0t2l;
C. Research and Planning Division
1. Designs, programs and coordinates DRRM activities consistent with the NDRRMC's
standards and guidelines;
2. Facilitates and suppofts risk assessment and contingency planning activities at the
local level;
3. Consolidates loca! disaster risk information which includes natura! hazards,
vulnerabilities and climate change risks and maintains a local risk map;

Ord. No. 0866-22
4. Conducts research and development initiatives on DRRM;
5. Formulates and implements a comprehensive and integrated Local DRRI4 Plan
(LDRRMP) in accordance with the national, regional, and provincial framework and
policies on DRR in close coordination with the Local Development Council (LDC);
6. Prepares and submits to the Local sanggunianthrough the Local DRRM Council and
the LDC the annual LDRRMP and budget, the proposed programming of the
LDRRMF, other dedicated DRRM resources, and other regular funding sources and
budgetary suppoft of the LDRRMO;
7. Maintains a database of human resource and their capacities, equipment,
directories, and location of critica! infrastructures such as hospitals and evacuation
centers;
8. Serues as the Secretariat and executive arm of the LDRRMC;
9. Recommends through the LDRRMC the enactrnent of local ordinances consistent
with R.A. 10121;
lO.Prepares and submits, through the LDRRMC and the LDC, the repoft on the
utilization of the LDRRMF and other dedicated DRRM resources to the local COA,
copy furnished the regional director of the Office of Civil Defense (OCD) and the
Local Government Operations Officer of the DILG;
ll.Involves the most vulnerable sectors (women, children, senior citizens and PWDs)
in risk assessment and planning;
12.Implements the accreditation of the Community Disaster Volunteers based on the
guidelines set by the NDRRMC; and
13. Performs other functions consistent with the provisions of this Ordinance and that
of R.A. 10121.
D. Local Emergency Communications and Response Division (Central 911)
1. Links government resources to the emergency needs to the best interests of the
public;
2. Ensures the proper management and response to various day-to-day emergencies,
including disasters and calamities. All rescue and response activities are also being
guided by safety protocols and standard operaUng procedures and an on-scene
management system adopted from the Incident Command System (ICS);
3. Continues to pursue strategies that aims to maximize its existing operational
capacity through strategic planning and management;
4. Acquisition, maintenance and upgrade of emergency resources in order to
proactively benefit the general public;

Ord. No. 0866-22
5. Institutionalizes its programs and projects that will ensure improved efficiency and
competency in terms of the delivery of emergency response seruices;
6. Initiates growth and development in terms of professionalizing the emergency
management systems;
7. Pefforms other functions consistent with the provisions of this Ordinance and that
of R.A. L0L2L;
E. Information and Communication Technology Division
1. Manages all information communication technology resources and primarily handles
all systems updates, troubleshooting and maintenance of IT equipment specially the
Emergency Calls Answering Point and Dispatch (ECAPD) Unit;
2. Provides related support to all users of Information Communication Technology
infrastructure;
3. Implements necessary electonic security measures to safeguard the database of
the organization;
4. Ensures that proper archiving and purging procedures are being implemented;
5. Develops and evaluates new systems-related technology that may be beneficia! to
the operation of the office;
6. Maintains coordination and linkages to other units and agencies.
SECTION 7.
- Pursuant to
SECTION 13 of Civil Seruice Memorandum Circular No. 13, SERIES of L992, entitled "Guidelines
and Standards in the Establishment of Organizational Structure and Staffing Pattern in the
Local Government Units", and DBM's Index of Occupational Seruices, Occupational Groups,
Classes and Salary Grades, the CDRRMO shall have the regular positions, salary grades and
the respective numbers to be created.
A. Regular positions of Department Head and Assistant Department Head shall be created
in the CDRRMO.
Class/Position Title
SG
ilumber
of
PosiUons
City Government DeparUnent Head II
City Government Assistant Departnent Head II

Class/Position Title
SG
Number
of
Positions
Local Disaster Risk Reduction Management Officer IV
Local Disaster Risk Reduction Management Officer III
Ord. No. 0866-22
B. The following regular posiUons, salary grades and the respective numbers shall be
created under the Administrative and Traini
1. Administrative SECTION
2. Traini
SECTION
C. The following regular positions, salary grades and the respective numbers shall be
created under the Research and
Division:
1. Research SECTION:
CIass/Position Title
SG
Number
of
Positions
Local Disaster Risk Reduction Management Officer II
Local Disaster Risk Reduction Management Officer I
Administrative Officer III (Supply fficer II)
L4
Administrative Officer I (Supply Officer I)
Local Disaster Risk Reduction Management Assistant
Administrative Aide VI (Clerk III)
Administrative Aide IV (Clerk II)
Administrative Aide IV (Driver II)
Administrative Aide IV (Reproduction Machine Operator
r)
Security Guard I
Administrative Aide III (Utility Worker II)
Number
of
Positions
Class/Position Title
SG
Local Disaster Risk Reduction Management fficer II
Local Disaster Risk Reduction Management fficer I
Local Disaster Risk Reduction Management Assistant
B
Class/Position Title
SG
Number
of
Positions
Local Disaster Risk Reduction Management fficer IV
Local Disaster Risk Reduction Management fficer III
1B
Class/Position Title
SG
Number
of
Positions
Local Disaster Risk Reduction Management Officer II
Local Disaster Risk Reduction Management fficer I
Local Disaster Risk Reduction Management Assistant
Division:

Ord. No. 0866-22
2. Planning SECTION:
SG
Number
of
Positions
Local Disaster Risk Reduction Management Officer II
Local Disaster Risk Reduction Management Officer I
Local Disaster Risk Reduction Management Assistant
B
Project Evaluation Assistant
Administrative Aide VI (Clerk III)
Administrative Aide IV (Clerk II)
Administrative Aide IV (Driver II)
D. The following regular positions, salary grades and the respective numbers shall be
created under the
and Wa
Division:
rated Public AIeft and Warni
SECTION
2. Risk Assessment and Monitori
SECTION
CIass/Position Title
SG
Number
of
Positions
Local Disaster Risk Reduction Management Officer IV
Local Disaster Risk Reduction Management Officer III
Number
of
Positions
Class/Position Title
SG
Local Disaster Risk Reduction Management Officer II
Local Disaster Risk Reduction Management Officer I
B
Local Disaster Risk Reduction Management Assistant
Admi nistrative Aide VI (Communications Equipment
Operator II)
Administrative Assistant VI (Data Entry Machine
Operator I)
Administrative Aide VI (Clerk III)
Administrative Aide IV (Clerk II)
Administrative Aide IV (Driver II)
Administrative Aide III (Utility Worker II)
Class/Position Title
SG
Number
of
Positions
Engineer II
Geologist II
Local Disaster Risk Reduction Management Officer I
B
Local Disaster Risk Reduction Management Assistant
Class/Position Title

Ord. No. 0866-22
E. The following regular positions, salary grades and the respective numbers shall be
created under the Local Emergency Communications and Response Division (Central
Communications SECTION :
SECTION
F. The following regular positions, salary grades and the respective numbers shal! be
created under the Information and Communication Technol
Division:
Class/Position Title
SG
Number
of
Positions
Special Operations fficer IV
Special Operations Officer III
1B
Administrative Aide IV (Driver II) (32 CU)
SecuriW Guard I
Administrative Aide III (Utility Worker II)
CIass/Position Title
SG
ilumber
of
Positions
Specia! Operations Officer II
L4
Admi n istrative Assista nt V (Comm un ications Eq ui pment
Operator IV)
Special Operations Officer I
Administrative Aide III (Communications Equipment
Operator III)
Administrative Aide VI (Communications Equipment
Operator II)
SG
Number
of
Positions
Class/Position Title
t4
Special Operations Officer II
Special Operations Officer I
Administrative Aide IV (Driver II)
Class/Position Title
SG
Number
of
Positions
Information Technology Officer I
Class/Position Title
SG
Number
of
Positions
Information Systems Analyst II
t2
Information Systems Analyst I
Computer Programmer I
Information Systems Researcher
SECTION
2.

Class/Position Title
SG
Number
of
Positions
Computer Maintenance Technologist II
Computer Maintenance Technologist I
Administrative Assistant III (Computer Operator II)
Administrative Assistant II (Data Controller II)
B
Administrative Assistant II (Electronics and
Communications Equipment Technician II)
Page22 of 54
Ord. No. 0866-22
and Maintenance SECTION
SECTION 8. FUNCTIOI{S AND OUALIEICATIOilS OF PIAilTILLA POSITIOilS -
Functions of the plantilla positions in the CDRRIVIO are hereby stated including the standard
qualificaUons required by the Civil Seruice Commission (CSC). The Human Resource
Management Office (HRMO) may require additional qualifications for each position relevant to
the provisions of this Ordinance and that of R.A. 10121;
A. City Government Department Head II
1. Qualifications
a. Must be civil seruice eligible and must have a Civil Defense/DRM
experience (SECTION 3 of the IRR for R.A. 10121);
b. Bachelor's degree;
c. Career seruice (Proftssional) Second Level Eligibility;
d. Five (5) years in a posiUon involving management and supervision, one
(1) year of which is relevant to DRRIvI;
e. Thirty-two (32) hours of training in supervision and management on
DRRM.
2. Functions as stated in SECTION 4 of the Implementing Rules and Regulations
(IRR) of R.A. 10121:
a. Establishes integrated institutional capacity within the City sphere to
enable the effective implementation of disaster management policy and
regulations;
b. Establishes a uniform approach to assessing and monitoring disaster risk
that will inform disaster management planning and disaster risk reduction
undeftaken by organs of state and other role players;
c. Ensures all disaster management stakeholders develop and implement
integrated disaster management plans and risk reduction programs in
accordance with approved frameworks;
d. Ensures effective and appropriate disaster response and recovery;
e. Promotes a culture of risk avoidance among stakeholders by capacitating
all role players through integrated education, training and public
awareness supported by scientific research;

Ord. No. 0866-22
f. Improves per{ormance managemenfprocesses in line with strategic
objectives of the City;
g. Performs such other duties and functions as may be prescribed by law,
Ordinance, or as may be directed by any superior officers.
B. Assistant City Government Department Head
1. Qualifications
a. Bachelor's degree;
b. Four (4) years in a position involving management and superuision, one
(1) year of which is relevant to DRRI4;
c. Career Seruice (Professional) Second Level Eligibility;
d. Twenty-four (24) hours of training in supervision and management on
DRRM.
2. Functions
a. Assists the City Government Depaftnent Head II in the peformance of
his/her duties and responsibilities and in running the operations of the
office;
b. Assists the City Government Depafirnent Head II in the management and
giving direction(s) on the planning, implementation and evaluation of
programs and projects of the office;
c. Supervises various operational activities in the office and assumes the
duties and functions of the City Govemment Deparfnent Head II in case
of absence and/or incapacity;
d. Performs such other duties and functions as may be prescribed by law,
ordinance, or as may be directed by the City Government Department
Head II and/or any superior officers.
C. Regular Positions under Adminisffation and Training Division
1. Local Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Officer IV SG-22
Qualifications:
a. Bachelor's degree;
b. Three (3) years of relevant experience on DRRM;
c. Sixteen (16) hours of relevant training on DRRM;
d. Career Service (Professional) Second Level Eligibility.
Functions:
a. Under direction, formulates and develops plans, programs,
pCIects and strategies relative to DRRM;
b. Identifies and implements cost-effective risk reduction
measures and strategies;
c. Directs and supervises the implementation of policies,
programs, projects and activities of the division and evaluates
their results for future appropriate actions;

I
Ord. No. 0866-22
d. Within its area, promote and raise public awareness regarding
hazards, risks and vulnerabilities;
e. Peforms such other related functions that may, from time to
time, be assigned by the immediate superuisor.
2. Local Disaster Risk Reduction and Ma
Officer III SG-18
3. Administrative SECTION
a. Local Disaster Risk Reduction and
Officer II SG-15
Qualifications:
a. Bachelor's degree;
b. Two (2) years of relevant experience on DRRM;
c. Eight (8) hours of relevant training on DRRM;
d. Career Seruice (Professional) Second Level Eligibility.
Functions:
a. Assists the Division Chief in monitoring and coordinating the
records & correspondence management such as document
tracing, records filing, storage and maintenance for
safekeeping and future reference;
b. Assists the Division Chief in monitoring and coordinating the
property & supply management such as supply utilization,
property/equipment maintenance to give or seruice from
requests for purchase of materials and other equipment
repairs;
c. Pafticipate in the planning and preparation of budget,
monitoring, and fund controlto ensure the smooth flow of the
financia! operations of the office;
d. Assists in planning, supervising and coordinating matters
involving perconnel administration for efficient and effective
operation and submit proposals fur approval of policies and
guidelines on personnel administration and development and
the improvement and maintenance of employee relations;
e. Assisb in providing administrative suppott and general
seruices to provide assistance for office repairs and utility
work;
f. Peforms other functions as may be directed by the
Department Head.
Qualifications:
a. Bachelor's degree;
b. One (1) year of relevant experience on DRRM;
c. Four (4) hours of relevant training on DRRM;
d. Career Service (Professional) Second Level Eligibility.
Functions:
a. Assists in administration of accounting and financial
management;
b. Reviews, revises and/or concurs with purchase request,
orders,
and
other
procurement,
correspondence/documentation prior to submission to the
GSO, monitor and track status of requisitions and payables;

Page 25 of g4
Ord. No. 0866-22
c. Oversees the preparation of financial report, draft annual budget
and procurement plan;
d. Performs staff functions and other related duties that may ftom
time to time be assigned.
b. Local Disaster Risk Reduction and
Officer I SG-11
c. Administrative Officer III
Officer
SG-14
Qualifications:
a. Bachelo/s degree;
b. No experience required;
c. No training required;
d. Career Service (Professional) Second Level Eligibility.
Functions:
a. Drafts policies and guidelines on personnel administration and
development plan;
b. Assists in monitoring of the personnel's attendance, leave,
peformance, behavior, and other daily whereabouts; Extracts
DTR and Prepares Monthly Record of Attendance;
c. Mediate personnel administrative problems by coordinating,
preparation of incident repofts and analysing data;
d. Coordinates with HRMO in perrcnnel development activities;
Maintenance and update database;
e. Perform such other functions as may be assigned from time to
time
Qualifications:
e. Bachelor's degree;
f. One (1) year of relevant experience on DRRM;
g. Four (4) hours of relevant training on DRRM;
h. Career Service (Professional) Second Level Eligibility.
Functions:
f. Undeftakes and records the issuance of requested supplies and
materials after the requisition have been approved by the
supervisors concerned and submit periodic reports of the
issuances made for monitoring of its utilization/supplies;
g. Prepares and Submits Purchase Requests (PRs) and Purchase
Orders (POs) and coordinate the process of delivery and
distribution;
h. Checks/inspects supplies and materials that have been delivered
and kepVand maintain records of its delivery;
i. Undertakes the inventory of supplies, maintain storage areas and
recommend replenishment of supplies when quantity appears
low; Prepares reporG on disposal of damaged items or units;
j. Performs other functions as may be directed by the Depaftment
Head.

d. Administrative Officer I
Officer I) SG-10
Ord. No. 0866-22
Assistant SG-8
e. Local Disaster Risk Reduction Ma
f. Administrative Aide VI (Clerk
SG-6
supt
Qualifications:
a. Bachelor's degree;
b. No experience required;
c. No training required;
d. Career Seruice (Professional) Second Level Eligibility.
Functions:
a. Undertakes the issuance of requested supplies and materials
after the requisitions have been approved by the supervisors
concerned and submits periodic reporb of the issuances
made for monitoring of its utilization/supplies;
b. Checks/inspects supplies and materials that have been
delivered and kepVand maintains records of its delivery;
c. Does other functions as may be directed by the Department
Head.
Qualifications:
a. Completion of two (2) years in college;
b. One (1) year of relevant experience in DRRM;
c. Four (4) hours of rclevant training in DRRM;
d. Career Service (Sub-Professional) First Level Eligibility.
Functions:
a. Coordinates administrative requirements of the activities,
programs and projects of the Office; Prepares and handles
correspondence;
b. Assists the Local Disaster Risk Reduction Management
Officers in the gathering, collection and encoding of data
related to DRRM;
c. Manages agenda, meeting arrangements and appointments,
etc.;
d. Supports accounting and bookkeeping procedures;
e. Pefforms other functions as may be directed by the
superuisor.
Qualifications:
a. Completion of two (2) years in college;
b. Four (4) hours of training in records management, data
management, and/or office productiviU tools;
c. Six (6) months of experience in records management, data
management, and/or office productivity tools;
d. Career Seruice (Sub-Professional) First Level Eligibility.
Functions:
a. Serues as the incoming and outgoing document clerk;
b. Peforms document management filing, scanning, data entry
to DTS;
c. Peforms other administraUve and clerical tasks as assigned
by the supervisor;

Ord. No. 0866-22
d. Renders duty suppoft during Disaster Response OperaUons;
e. Performs other tasks that may be assigned by the superuisor.
g. Administrative Aide IV Clerk
SG4
h. Administrative Aide IV Driver
SG-4
i, Administrative Aide IV
Machine Operator
SG-4
Qualifications:
a. Completion of two (2) years in college;
b. Training not required;
c. Experience not required;
d. Career Seruice (Sub-Professional) First Level Eligibility.
Functions:
a. Receives, records, and releases applications for maniage,
registration of births including registration of death and other
miscellaneous documents for registration;
b. Undeftakes the typing/encoding activities of the distric[
c. Does other related functions as may be directed by the
DeparUnent Head.
Qualifications:
a. Elementary School Graduate;
b. Training not required;
c. Experience not required;
d. Professional Driver's License (MC 10, s. 2013 - Cat IV)
Functions:
a. Safely and efficiently transport personnel, office supplies and
equipment using the office vehicle;
b. Undeftakes the proper maintenance and care of the vehicles
to ascertain that the said vehicles are in good running
condition;
c. Prepares repofts on fuel and oil consumption as well as the
distance travelled for submission to the City Accountant's
Office and City General Services Office;
d. Accomplishes trip tickets by using the Daily Authorized Trips
Summary to ensure that the trips are recorded and official;
e. Does other related functions as may be directed by the
DeparUnent Head.
Qualifications:
a. Elementary School Graduate;
b. Training not required;
c. Experience not required;
10 s. 2013 - Cat
d. Civil Service El
not

Ord. No.0866-22
Functions:
a. Reproduces correspondence/repofts and other pertinent
documents related to personnel management to facilitate
distribution and information dissemination to concerned
personnel and offices of the Agency;
b. Maintains the digital duplicator machine and photocopier by
conducting regular checking to determine mechanical
efficiency or defects;
c. Segregates and sort out the general forms for quick and easy
identification and usge;
d. Coordinates with the Administrative Officer should the
equipment require supplies, repairs and services to ensure
regula r functionality and operability;
e. Does other related functions as may be directed by the
Depaftment Head.
j. Secu
Guard I SG-3
k. Administrative Aide III
Worker
SG.3
Qualifications:
a. High School Graduate;
b. Four (4) hours of relevant training;
c. One (1) year of relevant experience; and
d. Security Guard License (MC 10, s. 2013 - Cat III)
Functions:
a. Assist in monitoring the Security Guard II in the pefformance
of giving safety and security to city government client,
employees and buildings/properties on their area of
assignments to ensure implementation of security measures
adopted by the office and keep records of incidents submitted
b. Assist in monitoring and obseruing individuals for any
suspicious acts and apprehend the same for questioning when
necessary to ensure adequate protection and safety of
government propefties and its immediate surroundings;
c. Maintain peace and order in the government premises and
apprehend violators of existing rules, regulations and
ordinances; and
d. Does other functions as may be directed by the Depaftment
Head.
Qualifications:
a. Must be able to read and write;
b. Training not required;
c. Experience not required; and
10 s. 2013 - Cat
d. No Civil Seruice E!

Ord. No. 0866-22
Functions:
a. Maintains the cleanliness and sanitation of the office by
cleaning the furniture and office equipment throwing of waste
and garbage; mopping the floor; and washing of dishes and
other utensils used in the office in order to have a conducive,
presentable, safe and healthy working environment;
b. Stores various housekeeping supplies for proper utilization and
control;
c. Arranges office decorations in connection with the obseruance
of various public holidays and other celebrations;
d. Locks and unlock the padlocks of the office to ensure its safety
and security; and
e. Does other related functions as may be directed by the
Department Head.
4. Training SECTION
a. Local Disaster Risk Reduction and Ma
b. Local Disaster Risk Reduction and
Officer II SG-15
Officer I SG-11
Qualifications:
a. Bachelor's degree;
b. One (1) year of relevant experience on DRRM;
c. Four (4) hours of relevant training on DRRM;
d. Career Service (Professional) Second Level Eligibility.
Functions:
a. Acts as the Training Instructor and assist the CDRRMO III in
organizing and conducting trainings, orientation, and
knowledge management activities on disaster risk reduction
and management at the local level;
b. Assists in the conduct of drills and exercises;
c. Drafts instructional manual, materials needed and other
relevant documents; Coordinates external training; and
d. Peforms staff functions and other related duties that may
from time to time be assigned by the superior.
Qualifications:
a. Bachelor's degree;
b. No experience required;
c. No training required;
d. Career Seruice (Professional) Second Level Eligibility.
Functions:
a. Assists all the other CDRRI4OS in the organization and
conduct of trainings, drills and exercises for the emergency
response teams in the local and community leve!;
b. Conducts training review and evaluation;
c. Assists in the review and evaluaUon of proposed LDRRM
programs, projects, activiUes in capacity enhancement;
d. Performs related functions that may, ftom time to time, be
assigned by the immediate superuisor.

Page 30 of54
Ord. No.0866-22
c. Local Disaster Risk Reduction Ma
Assistant SG-8
D. Regular Positions under the Research and Planning Division
1. Local Disaster Risk Reduction and
Officer IV SG-22
2. Local Disaster Risk Reduction and Ma
Officer III SG-18
Qualifications:
a. Completion of two (2) years in college;
b. One (1) year of relevant experience on DRRM;
c. Four (4) hours of relevant training on DRRM;
d. Career Seruice (Sub-professional) First Level Eligibility.
Functions:
a. Assists all the other Local Disaster Risk Reduction
Management Officers in coordinaUng and updating of
trainings and drill schedules;
b. Assists the Local Disaster Risk Reduction Management
Officer in conducting training review and evaluation;
Prepares training materials;
c. Maintains appropriate files, repofts, documentation and
data;
d. Pefforms related functions that may, from time to time, be
assigned by the immediate superuisor.
Qualifications:
a. Bachelor's degree;
b. Three (3) years of relevant experience on DRRM;
c. Sixteen (16) hours of relevant training on DRRM;
d. Career Service (Professional) Second Level Eligibility.
Functions:
a. Under direction, formulates and develops plans, programs,
projects and strategies relative to DRRM;
b. Consolidates local disaster risk infurmation which includes
natural hazards, vulnerabilities and climate change risks and
maintain a local risk map;
c. Directs and superuises the implementation of policies, programs,
projects and activities of the division and evaluates their results
for future appropriate actions;
d. Establishes and maintains information/data bank related to
occurrence of disaster or emergency;
e. AcG on other matters that may be authorized.
Qualifications:
a. Bachelo/s degree;
b. Two (2) years of relevant experience on DRRM;
c. Eight (8) hours of relevant training on DRRM;
d. Career Service (Professional) Second Level Eligibility.
Functions:
a. Assists the Local Disaster Risk Reduction Management Officer
in designing and formulating a comprehensive and integrated
Local DRRM Plan and programs in accordance with the
national, regional and provincial framework & policies on DRR
in close coordination with the Local Development Council
(LDC);
t

Ord. No. 0866-22
b. Assists the Local Disaster Risk Reduction Management Officer
in the preparation of the annual DRRM Plan and Budget, the
proposed programming of the LDRRM Funds and other
dedicated DRRM resources;
c. Prepares and submits through the LDRRMC and the LDC the
repoft on the utilization of the LDRRM Funds and other
dedicated DRRM Resources to the Local COA and other
concerned agencies;
d. Acts as the Secretariat and the executive arm of the Local
DRRM Council (LDRRMC);
e. Perforns such other related functions that may, from time to
time, be assigned by the immediate chief.
3. Research SECTION
a. Local Disaster Risk Reduction Management Offtcer II SG-15
b. Local Disaster Risk Reduction
Officer I SG-l1
Qualifications:
a. Bachelo/s degree;
b. One (1) year of relevant experience on DRRM;
c. Four (4) hours of relevant training on DRRM;
d. Career Seruice (Professional) Second Level Eligibility.
Functions:
a. Supervises and coordinates work plans in collecting and
gathering of data relative to risks, hazards and vulnerabilities;
b. Contributes technical inputs to the existing and development of
research pQects;
c. Liaises on a regular basis with planning SECTION or CPDO on work
plans and strategic planning;
d. Drafts research papers and report;
e. Performs such other related functions that may, from time to
time, be assigned by the immediate chief.
Qualifications:
a. Bachelo/s degree;
b. No experience required;
c. No training required; and
d. Career Seruice (Professional) Second Level Eligibility.
Functions:
a. Collects/gathers data relative to risks, hazards and vulnerabilities
of barangays;
b. Coordinates with line agencies in the planning, management,
monitoring and evaluation of activities relative to DRRM;
c. Follows-up administrative requirements of the activities,
programs and projects of the Office;
d. Assists the other Local Disaster Risk Reduction and Management
Officer in the formulation and development of the operational
office guidelines and policies;
e. Peforms such other related functions that may, from time to
time, be assiqned bv the immediate chief.

Ord. No. 0866-22
c. Local Disaster Risk Reduction Ma
Assistant SG-B
4. Planning SECTION
a. Local Disaster Risk Reduction Management Officer II SG-15
b. Local Disaster Risk Reduction Management Officer I SG-11
Qualifications:
a. Completion of two (2) years in college;
b. One (1) year of relevant experience on DRRM;
c. Four (4) hours of relevant training on DRRM;
d. Career Seruice (Sub-professional) First Level Eligibility.
Functions:
a. Assists the CDRRMOS in the gathering and collection of data
related to DRRM;
b. Follows-up administrative requirements of the activities,
programs and projects of the Office;
c. Perforns staff functions and other related duties that may be
assigned by superiors.
Qualifications:
a. Bachelor's degree;
b. One (1) year of relevant experience on DRRIvI;
c. Four (4) hours of relevant training on DRRM;
d. Career Service (Professional) Second Level Eligibility
Functions:
a. Maintains a local risk and hazard map and database on human
resource and their capabilities, equipment, directories and
location of critical infrastructures such as hospitals and
evacuation centers;
b. Conducts research and development initiatives on DRRM;
c. Consolidates local disaster risk information which includes
natural and man-made or human-induced hazards,
vulnerabilities and climate change risks;
d. Facilitates and support risk assessrnents and contingency
planning activities at the local level;
e. Performs such other related functions that may, from time to
time, be assigned by the immediate chief.
Qualifications:
a. Bachelor's degree;
b. No experience required;
c. No training required;
d. Career Service (Professional) Second Level Eligibility.
Functions:
a. Assists the Local Disaster Risk Reduction and Management
Officers in maintaining the local risk and hazard map and
database on human resource and their capabilities, equipment,
directories and location of critical infrastructures such as
hospitals and evacuation centers;
b. Conducts risk assessments for a diverse range of sites, such as
chemical factories, nuclear factories, city centers and major
spoftinq venues;

Ord. No. 0866-22
Assistant SG-8
d
c. Loca! Disaster Risk Reduction
Evaluation Assistant SG-8
e. Administrative Assistant VI (Clerk
SG-8
c. Analyzes and drafts plan for potential risks, such as outbreaks
of infections or disease, technical failure of electricity
networks, major gas leaks and severe weather conditions;
d. Prepares project proposals to support DRRM activities;
e. Peforms such other related functions that may, from time to
ti
be
ned
the immediate chief
Qualifications:
a. Completion of two (2) years in college;
b. One (1) year of relevant experience on DRRM;
c. Four (4) hours of relevant training on DRRM;
d. Career Seruice (Sub-professional) First Level Eligibility.
Functions:
a. Assists the Local Disaster Risk Reduction and Management
Officers in the gathering and collection of data related to
DRRM;
b. Follow-up administrative requirements of the activities,
programs and projects of the Office;
c. Peforms stafffunctions and other related duties that may be
assiqned by superiors.
Qualifications:
a. Completion of two (2) years in college;
b. One (1) year of relevant experience;
c. Four (4) hours of relevant training;
d. Career Service (Sub-professional) First Level Eligibility.
Functions:
a. Assists the other Project Development Officer I in
undeftaking research and prepare proposed program
designs in the formulation and development of LDRRM Fund
Investment Plan;
b. Conducts and initiate community assessment and strategy
for disaster risk reduction;
c. Assists in data banking of disaster risk reduction;
d. Pefforms staff functions and other related duties that may,
from time to time, be assigned as may be assigned by the
superior.
QualificaUons:
a. Completion of two (2) years in college or High School
graduate with relevant vocationaftrade course;
b. Experience not required;
c. Training not required; and
d. Communications Equipment Operator (MC 10, s. 2010 - Cat.
il).
Functions:
a. Serues as the incominq and outqoinq document clerk;

Ord. No. 0866-22
b. Peforms document management, filing, scanning, data entry
to DTS;
c. Performs other administrative and clerical tasks as assigned
by the superuisor;
d. Renders duty suppoft during Disaster Response Operations;
e. Performs other tasks that may be assiqned by the superuisor.
t. Administrative Assistant IV
SG-4
g. Administrative Aide IV
rr) sG-4
Qualifications:
a. Completion of two (2) years in college;
b. Experience not required;
c. Training not rcquired; and
d. Career Seruice (Sub-professional) First Level Eligibility.
Functions:
a. Assists along administration works in the preparation of
physica! and financial reporG;
b. Reviews, records outgoing disbursement vouchers/payrolls;
c. Types/encodes communications, transmittals, disbursement
vouchers and financia! reports;
d. Prepares acknowledgement receipts for collections and
deposiU
e. Files and stores copies and memorandum, guidelines and
other reference documenb of the Division to safe keep
peftinent documents and ensure that these can be easily
retrieved when needed;
f. Maintains and updates database of office records to ensure
that there is an inventory of available sources/documents
that can be used as references for statr;
g. Performs other tasks assigned by the superuisor.
Qualifications:
a. Elementary School Graduate;
b. Training not required;
c. Experience not required;
e. Professional Driver's License (MC 10, s. 2013 - Cat IV).
Functions:
a. Safely and efficiently transpoft personnel, office supplies and
equipment using the office vehicle;
b. Undertakes the proper maintenance and care of the vehicles
to ascertain that the said vehicles are in good running
condition;
c. Prepares reports on fuel and oil consumption as well as the
distance traveled for submission to the City Accountant's
Office and City General Services Office;
d. Accomplishes Uip tickets by using the Daily Authorized Trips
Summary to ensure that the bips are recorded and official;
e. Does other related functions as may be directed by the
depaffient head.

Ord. No. 0866-22
E. Regular Positions under the Operations and Warning Division
1. Local Disaster Risk Reduction and
fficer IV SG-22
2. Local Disaster Risk Reduction and Ma
Officer III SG-18
Qualifications:
a. Bachelor's degree;
b. Three (3) years of relevant experience on DRRM;
c. Sixteen (16) hours of relevant training on DRRIT4;
d. Career Seruice (Professional) Second Level Eligibility.
Functions:
a. Under direction, formulate and develop plans, programs,
projects and strategies relative to DRRM
b. Supervises the response to manage the adverse effects of
emergencies and carry out recovery activities in the affected
areas
c. Directs and superuises the implementation of policies,
programs, p@ects and activities of the division and
evaluates their results for future appropriate actions.
d. Operates a 2417 DRRM Operations Center at the local level;
e. Pefforms such other related functions that may, from time to
time, be assigned by the immediate chief.
Qualifications:
a. Bachelor's degree;
b. Two (2) years of relevant experience on DRRM;
c. Eight (8) hours of relevant training on DRRM;
d. Career Service (Professional) Second Level Eligibility.
Functions:
a. Assists the LDRRM Offcer in the conduct of operations during
emergencies;
b. Establishes appropriate monitoring stations and
warning/dissemination capabilities to make the general
public aware of impending disasters and emergencies;
Oversee the operation of a multi-hazard warning system to
provide accurate/ timely advice to all emergensy response
organizations and to the general public by way of diverse
media, particularly radio, landline communications & other
technology; Maintains/Updates data bank on al! info-risks &
hazards, available resources, DANA, etc.;
c. Mobilizes instrumentaliUes of the local unit, private groups
and organized volunteers to utilize their resources and
facilities for the protection & preservation of life and
propefties during emergencies in accordance with existing
policies & procedures;
d. Conducts Damage and Needs Analysis (DANA) in the affected
area/s and prepare and submit the same to concerned
authorities and agencies;
e. Peforms other tasks that may be assigned by the immediate
superuisor.

Ord. No. 0866-22
3. Integrated Public Aleft and Warning SECTION
a. Local Disaster Risk Reduction Management Officer II SG-15
b. Local Disaster Risk Reduction Ma
Officer I SG-1l
c. Local Disaster Risk Reduction
Assistant I SG-8
Qualifications:
a. Bachelor's degree;
b. One (1) year of relevant experience on DRRM;
c. Four (4) hours of relevant training on DRRM;
d. Career Service (Professional) Second Level Eligibility.
Functions:
a. Develops, stlengthens and operationalizes mechanisms for
partnership or networking with the private sector, CSOs and
other volunteer groups;
b. Conducts Rapid Damage and Needs Analysis (RDANA) in the
affected area/s and carry out recovery activiUes to the most
vulnerable areas;
c. Assists the LDRRMOS in the conduct of operations during
emergencies;
d. Performs other tasks as may be assigned by the supervisors.
Qualifications:
a. Bachelo/s degree;
b. No experience required;
c. No training required; and
d. Career Service (Professional) Second Level Eligibility.
Functions:
a. Leads in the profiling and mapping the hazards of the
barangays by collecting and gathering data;
b. Establishes linkage and/or network with other LGUs for DRR
and emergency response purposes;
c. Coordinates other DRRI\4 activities;
d. Peforms other tasks as may be assigned by the supervisor.
Qualifications:
a. Completion of two (2) years in college;
b. One (1) year of relevant experience on DRRM;
c. Four (4) hours of relevant training on DRRM;
d. Career Service (Sub-professional) First Level Eligibility.
Functions:
a. Assists the CDRRMOS in the gathering and collection of
data related to DRRM;
b. Follow-up administrative requirements of the activities,
programs and projects of the Office;
c. Peforms staff functions and other related duties that may
be assiqned by superiorc.

Ord. No. 0866-22
d. Administrative Aide VI
e. Administrative Assistant II
f. Administrative Assistant VI
Machine Operator I) SG-6
nications
Clerk
SG-8
r
SG.6
Qualifications:
a. Completion of two (2) years in college or High School
g rad uate with releva nt vocationa Utrade cou lse;
b. Experience not required;
c. Training not required; and
d. Communication Equipment Operator (MC 10 s.2013 - Cat
u).
Functions:
a. Pefforms preventive maintenance on communications
equipment;
b. Maintains detailed records of calls and activities; and
c. Performs staff functions and other related duties that may,
from time to time, be assigned by the superior.
Qualifications:
a. Completion of two (2) years in college or High School
graduate with relevant vocationaftrade cource;
b. Experience not required;
c. Training not required; and
d. Data Encoder (MC 10 s.2010l)/Career Seruice (Subprofessional) First Level Eligibility.
Functions:
a. Gathers and compiles data and information required in the
preparation of accomplishment and situational repofts;
b. Generates repofts;
c. Performs back-up operations;
d. Updates and maintains database; and
e. Pedorms staff functions and other related duties that may
from time to time, be assigned by the superior.
Qualifications:
a. Completion of two (2) years in college or High School
graduate with relevant vocationafltrade coutse;
b. Experience not required;
c. Training not required; and
d. Communications Equipment Operator (MC 10, s. 2010 -
Cat. II).
Functions:
a. Serues as the incoming and outgoing document clerk;
b. Peforms document management, filing, scanning, data
entry to DTS;
c. Performs other administrative and clerical tasks as assigned
by the superuisor;
d. Renders duty support during Disaster Response Operations;
and
e. Performs other tasks that may be assigned by the
superuisor.

Ord. No. 0866-22
g. Administrative Assistant IV
SG-4
h. Administrative Aide IV
sG-4
i. Administrative Aide III
Worker
SG.3
Qualifications:
a. Completion of two (2) years in college;
b. Experience not required;
c. Training not required;
d. Career Service (Sub-professional) First Level Eligibility.
Functions:
a. Receives, records, and releases applications for marriage,
registration of births including registration of death and
other miscellaneous documents for registration;
b. Undeftakes the typing/encoding activities of the distric$
c. Does other related functions as may be directed by the
Department Head.
Qualifications:
d. Elementary School Graduate;
e. Training not required;
f . Experience not required; and
e. Professional Driver's License (MC 10, s. 2013 - Cat IV).
Functions:
a. Safely and efficiently transpofts personne!, office supplies
and equipment using the office vehicle;
b. Undeftakes the proper maintenance and care of the
vehicles to ascertain that the said vehicles are in good
running condition;
c. Prepares repofts on fuel and oil consumption as well as the
distance Uaveled fur submission to the City Accountant's
Office and City General Services Office;
d. Accomplishes trip tickets by using the Daily Authorized
Trips Summary to ensure that the trips are recorded and
official; and
e. Does other related functions as may be directed by the
Depaftment Head.
Qualifications:
a. Must be able to read and write;
b. Training not required;
c. Experience not required; and
d. No Civil Seruice Eligibility Required (MC 10, s. 2013 - Cat III).
Functions:
a. Maintains the cleanliness and sanitation of the office by
cleaning the furniture and office equipment, throwing of
waste and garbage, mopping of the floor, and washing of
dishes and other utensils used in the office in order to have
a conducive, presentable, safe and healthy working
environment;
b. Stores various housekeeping supplies for proper utilization
and control;
c. Arranges office decorations in connection with the
obseruance of various public holidays and other celebrations;

Ord. No. 0866-22
d. Locks and unlocks the padlocks of the office to ensure its
safety and security;
e. Does other functions as may be directed by the Department
Head.
4. Risk Assessment and Monitoring SECTION
a.
ineer II SG-16
II SG-15
b.
Qualifications:
a. Bachelor's degree in Engineering relevant to the job;
b. One (1) year of relevant experience;
c. Four (4) hours of relevant training; and
d. Civil Service Eligibility - R.A. 1080.
Functions:
a. Conducts and coordinates inspections and monitoring of
probable peformance of existing and new infrastructures
and other critical facilities (Infrastructure Audit);
b. Initiates preliminary draft of technical information and
conducts preparatory safety analysis of suruey data;
c. Provides technical assistance on engineering functions and
development plans and recommends strengthening and
rehabilitation;
d. Pefforms related duties as required.
Qualifications:
a. Bachelor of Science in Geology or Bachelor of Science/Arts
major in Geology;
b. One (1) year of relevant experience;
c. Four (4) hours of relevant training;
d. Civil Service Eligibility - R.A. 1080.
Functions:
a. Ensures environmental and other regulations are met in
construction and production projects;
b. Consults on various geology-related issues like waste
management, resource management, earthquakes, floods,
etc.;
c. Conducts quality control on the suitability of material (e.9.
metals for construction purposes) and inspect pCIects
d. Surveys sites and creates logs (e.9. borehole) and maps
using GIS;
e. Gathers and analpes geological data;
f. Coordinates research programs; and
q. Pedorms related duties as required.
Qualifications:
a. Bachelor's degree;
b. No experience required;
c. No training required;
d. Career Seruice (Professional) Second Leve! Eli
c. Local Disaster Risk Reduction Ma
Officer I SG-ll

Ord. No. 0866-22
d. Local Disaster Risk Reduction Ma
Assistant SG-8
F. Regular Positions under the Local Emergency Communications and Response
Division (Central 91 1):
1. Special
ns Officer IV SG-22
Functions:
a. Drafts policies and protocols for identiffing, monitoring and
managing all types of risks;
b. Assists in the risk identification, assessment, monitoring
and contribute to risk and control repofting process; Drafts
Situation Repoft;
c. Manages the process for monitoring and resource tracking;
d. Assists in the cross checking of data;
e. Performs staff functions and other related duties that may,
from time to time, be
ned
the
Qualifications:
a. Completion of two (2) years in college;
b. One (1) year of relevant experience on DRRM;
c. Four (4) hours of relevant training on DRRM;
d. Career Seruice (Sub-professional) First Level Eligibility.
Functions:
a. Acts as the repository of statistical data, information, and
reports of calamities/disasters; Facilitates and monitors the
timely submission of Field Assessment Repoft; Maintain
and update databank; Follow up status updates
b. Arranges and attend briefings and meeting;
c. Facilitates the field visits; and
d. Peforms other duties as required.
Qualifications:
a. Bachelor's degree;
b. Three (3) years of relevant experience in DRRM;
c. Sixteen (16) hours of relevant training on DRRM; and
d. Career Seruice (Professional) Second Level Eligibility.
Functions:
a. Shall act as the Chief Operations Officer of the Davao City
CENTRAL 911;
b. Shall ensure the proper management and response to
various day-to-day emergencies, including disasters and
calamiUes;
c. Pursues strategies that aims to maximize its existing
operational capacity through strategic planning and
management;
d. Facilitates acquisition, maintenance and upgrade of
emergency resour@s in order to proactively benefit the
general public;

Page 4l ot 54
Ord. No.0866-22
e. Institutionalizes its programs and projects that will ensure
improved efficiency and competency in terms of the delivery
of emergency response services;
f. Shal! foster growth and development in terms of
professionalizing the emergency ma nagement systems;
g. Shall ensure that an efficient interoperability schemes and
strategic coordination, as well as structured
management/command systems are consistently
undertaken. It shall institutionalize linkages with the
different operaUon centers and other response agencies; and
h. Performs other function/s in relation to emergency response,
as directed.
2. Special
Officer III SG-18
Qualifications:
a. Bachelor's degree;
b. Two (2) years of relevant experience on DRRM;
c. Eight (8) hours of relevant training on DRRM; and
d. Career Seruice (Professional) Second Level Eligibility.
Functions:
a. Shall assist the Special Operations fficer IV in the conduct
of the division's functions
b. Ensures that Call Takers and Dispatchers follow Standard
Operating Procedures based on the different type of calls;
c. Conducts regular review and monitoring of the overall
operations of Central 911;
d. Informs the Center Head of Central 911 and the Department
Head and assists in addressing important concerns regarding
Central 911 concerns;
e. Conducts personnel orientation and trainings, including
personnel assessment;
f. Coordinates with other agencies during complex
emergencies;
g. Develops a protocol on evacuation when affected by
disasters and calamities that may result to infrastructure
failure for the safety of its personnel and safekeeping of its
equipment/resources;
h. Peform other related tasVs as directed by the Chief
Operations Officer.
Qualifications:
a. Elementary School Graduate;
b. Training not required;
c. Experience not required; and
e. Professional Driver's License ,
s. 2013 - Cat
MC
3. Administrative Aide IV Driver
SG-4

i
Ord. No. 0866-22
Functions:
a. Provides safe and efficient transport seruices to all CENTRAL
911 personnel;
b. Conducts regular inspections of the assigned vehicle
including its communication equipment and tools during
their duty schedule;
c. Immediately repofts to the Vehicle Maintenance In-charge
for any issues/concems, malfunction, breakdown or
incidents. (An Incident Report must be prepared by the
Veh icle Operator/Driver on-d uty);
d. Responsible for the cleanliness of the assigned response
vehicle;
e. Coordinates with the vehicle maintenance perconnel incharge for proper scheduling of routine and periodic vehicle
maintenance activities or repair needs; and
f. Performs other related taslVs as may be directed.
Guard I SG-3
5. Administrative Aide III
Worker
SG-3
4.
Qualifications:
a. High School Graduate;
b. Four (4) hours of relevant training;
c. One (1) year of relevant experience; and
d. Security Guard License (MC 10, s. 2013 - Cat III)
Functions:
a. Monitors and obserues individuals for any suspicious acts
and apprehend the same for questioning when necessary to
ensure adequate protection and safety of government
propefties and its immediate surroundings;
b. Checks/ inspects people coming in and out of the city
government building;
c. Maintains peace and order in the government premises and
apprehend violators of existing rules, regulations and
ordinances;
d. Does other related functions as may be directed by the
Depaftnent Head.
Qualifications:
a. Must be able to read and write;
b. Training not required;
c. Experience not required; and
d. No Civil Service Eligibility Required (MC 10, s. 2013 - Cat III)
Functions:
a. Keep the facilities clean and in ordedy condition;
b. Does specific duties, but are not limited to the following:
- CIeans and maintains CENTRAL 911 facilities;
- Performs janitorial and ground maintenance work;

a
Ord. No. 0866-22
6. Emergency Communications SECTION
a. Special Operations Officer II SG-14
- Disinfects and scrubs toilet facilities;
- Practice good garbage disposal system;
- Assists mechanics and other technical staff
cleaning and repairing utility systems; and
c. Pefforms other related work as required.
in testing,
Qualifications:
a. Bachelo/s degree;
b. One (1) year of relevant experience;
c. Four (4) hours of relevant training; and
d. Career Seruice (Professional) Second Level Eligibility.
Functions:
a. Shall act as the Shift Teaeader;
b. Oversees the operation of the assigned shift and reports
directly to the Unit Chief;
c. Monitors the generation/collection of call records/information
and ensures control and confidentiality of all information;
d. Provides assistance to cal! takers and dispatchers, when
necessary, in extracting impoftant information from the caller
and dispatching of emergency resources;
e. Responsible for the monitoring of personnel attendance,
personnel monthly checklist, etc. and conducts regular
inventory of equipment;
t. Superuises the turn-over of duff of Call takers and
Dispatchers from the out-going shift, and shall ensure that
proper defusing and debriefing sessions of the ECAPD
personnel are being conducted especially after critical
incidents;
g. Conducts peformance review of the team members using the
prescribed monthly scorecard form;
h. In the event of multi-casualty incidents, the Shift Team
Leader shall act as the Communication Leader (Comml);
i. During complex emergencies, the Shift Team Leader will
dispatch the necessary resources based on the existing
response protocols for different types of incidents; and
j. Implements appropriate safety measures involving EMS Unit
safe operations during incidents;
k. Monitors and/or anticipates the possible occurrence of risks
and hazardous/unsafe situations during an emergency
operation;
l. Performs other related tasVs as directed by the Unit Chief.

Ord. No. 0866-22
b. Special Operations Officer I SG-10
c. Administrative Assistant V (Communications Equipment Operator IV)
SG-11
Qualifications:
a. Completion of two (2) years in college or High Schoo!
graduate with relevant vocational/trade course;
b. Two (2) years of relevant experience;
c. Eight (8) hours of relevant training; and
d. Communication Equipment Operator (MC 10 s.2013 - Cat
r).
Functions:
a. Receives, relays and transmits messages to all authorized
receivers of communication; Handles outgoing, inter-office or
incoming calls by operating switchboard to facilitate
connections
b. Undertakes installation, preventive maintenance and
checking of communications equipment
c. Maintains detailed records of calls and activities; and
d. Performs staff functions and other related duties that may,
from time to time, be assiqned by the superior.
Qualifications:
a. Bachelor's degree;
b. Experience not required;
c. Training not required;
d. Career Service (Professional) Second Level Eligibility.
Functions:
a. Shall act as the Team Leader (Search and Rescue Dog);
b. Oversees the operation of the SAR Dog Team and repofts
directly to the Unit Chief;
c. Shall ensure that proper defusing and debriefing sessions of the
FAS personnel are being conducted especially after critical
incidents;
d. Conducts performance review of the team members using the
prescribed monthly scorecard form and assessment for the SAR
Dogs;
e. Responsible for the monitoring of personnel attendance,
personnel monthly checklist, etc. and conducts regular inventory
of equipment;
f. Implements appropriate safety measures involving SAR Dog
Team safe operations during incidents and responses;
g. Monitors and/or anticipates the possible occurence of risks and
hazardous/unsafe situations during an emergency operation;
and
h. Pefonns other related tasVs as directed by immediate
superuisors.

Ord. No. 0866-22
d. Administrative Assistant III (Communications Equipment Operator III)
SG.9
Qualifications:
a. Completion of two (2) years in college or High School graduate
with relevant vocationafltrade course;
b. One (1) year of relevant experience;
c. Four (4) hours of relevant training;
d. Communication Equipment Operator (MC 10 s.2013 - Cat II).
Functions:
a. Receives and transmits radio messages from the City Mayor to
the officials of the City Government including barangay
officials;
b. Assists in logging all calls from the public and sees to it that
important messages are properly disseminated to respective
offices of persons
c. Receives and transmit messages from the employees to
concerned individuals;
d. Does related work.
e. Administrative Aide VI Communications
ui
SG-6
7. Emergency Response SECTION
a. Special Operations Officer II SG-14
Qualifications:
a. Completion of two (2) years in college or High School graduate
with relevant vocationaUtrade course;
b. Experience not required;
c. Training not required; and
d. Communication Equipment Operator (MC 10 s.2013 - Cat II).
Functions:
a. Receives, relays and Uansmits messages to all authorized
receivers of communication;
b. Pefforms preventive maintenance on communications
equipment;
c. Maintains detailed records of calls and activities; and
d. Peforms staff functions and other related duties that may, from
time to time, be assigned by the superior.
Qualifications:
a. Bachelor's degree;
b. One (1) year of relevant experience;
c. Four (4) hours of relevant training;
d. Career Seruice (Professional) Second Level Eligibility.
Functions:
a. Shall act as the Shift Team Leader;
b. Oversees the operation forthe assigned shift and reports directly
to the Unit Chief;

b
Ord. No. 0866-22
c. Monitors the generation/collection of call records/information
and ensures control and confidentiality of all information;
d. Provides assistance to Call takers and Dispatchers, when
necessary, in extracting important information from the caller
and dispatching of emergency resources;
e. Responsible for the monitoring of personnel attendance,
personnel monthly checklist, etc. and conducts regular inventory
of equipment;
f. Superuises the turn-over of duty of Call takers and Dispatchers
from the out-going shift, and shall ensure that proper defusing
and debriefing sessions of the ECAPD personnel are being
cond ucted especially after critical incidents;
g. Conducts performance review of the team members using the
prescribed monthly scorecard form;
h. In the event of multi-casualty incidents, the Shift Team Leader
shall act as the Communication Leader (Comml);
i. During complex emergencies, the Shift Team Leader will
dispatch the necessary resources based on the existing response
protocols for different types of incidents; and
j. Performs other related task/s as directed by the Unit Chief.
k. Implements appropriate safuty measures involving EMS Unit
safe operations during incidents;
l. Monitors and/or anticipates the possible occurence of risks and
hazardous/unsafe situations during an emergency operation;
m. Performs staff functions and other related duties that may, from
time to time, be assigned by the superior.
Officer I SG-10
Qualifications:
a. Bachelor's degree;
b. Experience not required;
c. Training not required;
d. Career Service (Professional) Second Leve! Eligibility.
Functions:
a. Shall act as the Team Leader (Search and Rescue Dog);
b. Oversees the operation of the SAR Dog Team and repolB
directly to the Unit Chief;
c. Shall ensure that proper defusing and debriefing sessions of the
FAS personnel are being conducted especially after critical
incidents;
d. Conducts pefformance review of the team members using the
prescribed monthly scorecard form and assessment for the SAR
Dogs;
e. Responsible for the monitoring of personne! attendance,
personnel monthly checklist, etc. and conducts regular inventory
of equipment;

Ord. No. 0866-22
f. Implements appropriate safety measures involving SAR Dog
Team saft operations during incidents and responses;
g. Monitors and/or anticipates the possible occurence of risks and
hazardous/unsafe situations during an emergency operation;
and
h. Performs other related tasVs as directed by the Unit Chief.
c. Administrative Aide IV
sG-4
G. Regular Positions under the InformaUon and Communication Technology Division
1. Information Tech
Officer I SG-19
Qualifications:
a. Elementary School Graduate;
b. Training not required;
c. Experience not required; and
d. Professional Drive/s License (MC 10, s. 2013 - Cat IV)
Functions:
a. Provides safe and efficient transport services to all CENTRAL
911 personnel;
b. Conducts regular inspections of the assigned vehicle including
its communication equipment and tools during their duty
schedule;
c. Immediately repofts to the Vehicle Maintenance In-charge for
any issues/concerns, malfunction, breakdown or incidents.
(An Incident Repoft must be prepared by the Vehicle
Operator/Driver on -d uty);
d. Responsible for the cleanliness of the assigned response
vehicle;
e. Coordinates with the vehicle maintenance perconnel incharge for proper scheduling of routine and periodic vehicle
maintenance activities or repair needs;
f. Peforms other related task/s as may be directed.
Qualifications:
a. Bachelo/s degree;
b. Two (2) years of relevant experience;
c. Eight (8) hours of relevant training; and
d. Career Seruie (Professional) Second Level Eligibility.
Functions:
a. Superuises the day to day activity of the division in relation
to its mandated functions.
b. Acts as Security fficer br the Network and Systems
Development Operations and assist in the conduct of
trainings

Ord. No. 0866-22
c. Consults with and assist the other units in the office with
regards to systems and procedures, records, control and
security;
d. Establishes a reliable monitoring system of the network to
maintain and ensure secured database;
e. Formulates database structures and designs;
f. Recommends to the Depaflrnent Head other measures in
systems development
g. Superuises the installation and configuration of computer
hardware, softulare, systems, networks, printers and
scanners
h. Supervises the troubleshooting, support, and repair when IT
equipment or networks malfunction;
i. Pedorms other related functions as may be directed by the
DeparBnent Head.
2. Systems SECTION
a. Information
II SG-16
b. Information
Ana
I SG.12
Qualifications:
a. Bachelor's degree;
b. One (1) year of relevant experience;
c. Four (4) hours of relevant training;
d. Career Seruice (Professional) Second Level Eligibility
Functions:
a. Acts as Project Team Leader in managing the development
and implementation of different systems.
b. Defines data requirements for system study;
c. Repofis periodically to the Division Head regarding progress
of systems operations.
d. Assigns programming jobs to programmers;
e. Documents systems for future reference; and
f. Does other related tasks
Qualifications:
a. Bachelor's degree relevant to the job;
b. One (1) year of relevant experience;
c. Four (4) hours of relevant training; and
d. Career Seruice (Professional) Second Level Eligibility.
Functions:
a. Develops design specifications;
b. Prepares documentation on design specifications which
includes workflows and user procedures manual;
c. Gathers user requirements on systems for development,
organize and document ftndings into design specifications;
d. Closely coordinates with the Programmer Lead during
system development and deployment;
e. Discusses to the team the design specifications; and
f. Does other related functions as may be directed by the
superior.

Ord. No. 0866-22
c.
rammer I SG-11
d. Information
Researcher I SG-10
3. Operations and Maintenance SECTION
a
Maintenance
ist II SG.15
Qualifications:
a. Bachelo/s degree relevant to the job;
b. Experience not required;
c. Training not required; and
d. Career Service (Professional) Second Level Eligibility.
Functions:
a. Develops and prepares documentation on design
specifications which includes worKlows and user procedures
manual;
b. Analyzes research materials related to information and
technologies that may help in defining design specifications;
c. Coordinates with the Information Tech. I during system
development and deployment; and
d. Performs other related functions as may be directed by the
Supervisor.
Qualifications:
a. Bachelor's degree relevant to the job;
b. Experience not required;
c. Training not required; and
d. Career Service (Professional) Second Level Eligibility.
Functions:
a. Conducts research on related information and technologies
that may help in defining design specifications;
b. Gathers user requirements on systems for development,
organize and document findings into design specifications;
c. Assess computer technologies to find innovative uses and
applications;
d. Develop new tools and methods for computer use and
design experiments to test systems capabilities; and
e. Performs other duties as required.
Qualifications:
a. Bachelor's degree;
b. One (1) year of relevant experience;
c. Four (4) hours of relevant training; and
d. Career Seruice (Professional) Second Level Eligibility.
Functions:
a. Pefforms preventive maintenance and basic corrective
maintenance on the city's peripherals and data
communication equi pments system;
b. Ensures the efficient and effective operation of a computer
system of auxiliary equipment directly associated with
computer
c. Maintains close coordinaUon with the users in the event of
hardware malfunction;
d. Enforces standards and procedures for equipment operation
data and installation securiU and trouble-shooUng;

Ord. No. 0866-22
b.
e. Sees to it that basic equipment used in seruice maintenance
are working properly
f. Coordinates with the supply SECTION regarding spare parts
and other requirements;
q. Performs other duties as required
Maintenance Tech
I SG.ll
c. Administrative Assistant III
SG-9
Qualifications:
a. Bachelor's degree relevant to the job;
b. Experience not required;
c. Training not required;
d. Career Service (Professional) Second Level Eligibility.
Functions:
a. Assists the Computer Maintenance Technologist II in
carrying out duties associated with the efficient and effective
operation of a computer system of auxiliary equipment
directly associated with computer;
b. Assists in the maintenance and closely coordinate with the
users in the event of hardware malfunction;
c. Assists in the enforcement of standards and procedures for
equipment operation data and installation, security and
trouble-shooting;
d. Sees to it that basic equipment used in seruice maintenance
are working properly
e. Coordinates with the supply SECTION regarding spare parts
and other requirements; and
t. Peforms other duties as required.
Qualifications:
a. Completion of two (2) years in college or High School
graduate with relevant vocationaftrade cource;
b. One (1) year of relevant experience;
c. Four (4) hours of relevant training;
d. Career Service (Sub-Professional) First Level Eligibility.
Functions:
a. Performs various computer operations, encode and print
data such as repofts, transmittals, financial statements, etc.
b. Loads and unloads programs, operating system and utility
software to ensure computer units are up and running at all
times;
c. Under general superuision, maintains the good condition of
the equipment;
d. Logs data and maintains records of peripheral devises,
storage media and other related equipment to monitor
condition of the machines;
e. Maintains file security to ensure confidentiality and integrity
of records; and
f. Does other functions as may be directed by the Department
Head.
I

Ord. No. 0866-22
d. Administrative Assistant II
Controller
SG-8
e. Administrative Assistant II (Electronics and Communications Equipment
Technician
SG-8
SECTION 9. EBQItsMES[ - The positions in the CDRRMO shall be appointed by
the City Mayor in accordance with civil service laws and rules making sure that the appointee
shall have met the qualification standards set by the Civil Service Commission.
Qualifications:
a. Completion of two (2) years in college or High School
graduate with relevant vocationafltrade coume;
b. One (1) year of relevant experience;
c. Four (4) hours of relevant training;
d. Career Service (Sub-Professional) First Level Eligibility or
Data Encoder (MC 6, s. 2010).
Functions:
a. Coordinates operations of computer systems in various
departments/a gencies, i ncl udi ng coord i nation of col lection
and storage needs of users;
b. Establishes data dictionary that records the office data
definition and standards, including installation and
maintenance of a systems library;
c. Peforms computer operations in data entry and processing;
d. Loads and unloads programs, operating systems and
utilities, softurare;
e. Prepares and submits periodic summary and exception
repor6 whenever necessary; and
t. Provides direct technical assistance to superiors as well as
perform such other duties as may be directed.
Qualifications:
a. Completion of two (2) years in college or High School
graduate with relevant vocational/trade cource;
b. One (1) year of relevant experience;
c. Four (4) hours of relevant training;
d. Career Service (Sub-Professional) First Level Eligibility or
Elecfonics Equipment Technician (MC 10, s. 2013 - Cat. II).
Functions:
a. Installs, troubleshoots and repairs electronics and computer
equipment used in different segment in electronic
communications;
b. Performs preventive maintenance; Updates software and run
test on existing equipment; Maintains reports and manuals;
and
c. Peforms staff functions and other related duties that may,
ftom time to time, be assigned by the superior.

ir
Page 52 of #
Ord. No. 0866-22
SECTION 10. ACCREDITATION, MOBIIIZATIOil AND PROTECTION OF
DISASTER VOLU]ITEERS AilD NATIOilAt SERVICE RESERVE CORPS, CIWI
SOCIETY ORGANIZATIONS AND PRMTE SECTOR - Community/barangay disaster
volunteers operating within the territorialjurisdiction of Davao City shall be accredited by the
LDRRMC.
A. The Local Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Council (LDRRMC) through the
Local Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Office (LDRRMO) may mobilize Civil
Society Organizations (CSOs), private sectorc, individuals and organized volunteers to
augment its personnel and logistical requirements in the delivery of disaster risk
reduction programs and activities.
B. The City Government shall take full responsibility for the enhancement welfare and
protection of all Accredited Community Disaster Volunteers, and shall submit the list of
volunteers to the Office of Civil Defense (OCD) through the CDRRMO for inclusion in
the database of community disaster volunteers.
C. Accreditation and mobilization of volunteers shall be in accordance with the guidelines
formulated by the National Disaster and Risk Reduction Management Council (NDRRMC)
consistent with the provisions of Republic Act No. 10121 or the "Philippine Disaster Ris(
Reduction and Management Act of 2010".
D. The LDRRMC shall set the minimum standards on the protection and compensatory
benefits of Accredited Community Disaster Volunteerc in accordance with the guidelines
formulated by the NDRRMC. Other benefits to ACDVs may be set by the LDRRMC
pursuant to R.A. 10121, based on the availability of funds, and following present
enabling policies, auditing rules and rcgulations.
sEcrroil 11.
OFFICE CCDRRMO) - The regular personnel of CDRRMO as a division of the City Mayo/s
Office shall be transferred to the CDRRMO as a depailrnent pursuant to Civil Service
Commission's Omnibus Rules on Appointments and Other Human Resource Actions.
sEcTroil 12.
CENTER AND CMO-COMMUilICATION UilIT - The Central Communications and
Emergenry Response Center of Davao City, otherwise known as Central 911, and the City
Mayo/s Office-Communications Unit shall be included in the CDRRMO. Central 911 shall be
merged as the Local Emergency Communications and Response Division of CDRRMO. The
City Mayor's Office-Communications Unit is hereby abolished. Regular personnel of the City
Mayo/s Office-Communications Unit shall be transferred to the CDRRMO pursuant to the Civi!
Service Commission's Omnibus Rules on Appointments and Other Human Resource Actions.
SECTION 13. MANPOWER COllPLEItlEl{T - The City Mayor shall be allowed to
employ emergency personnel or laborers needed by the CDRRMO through Job Orders or
Contract of Services based on the availability of budget pursuant to SECTION 77 of Republic Act
No. 7L60, otherwise known as the *Local Government Code of 1991" and subject to
government rules and regulations on budgeting, accounting and auditing.

Ord. No. 0866-22
SECTION L4. APPROPRIATION - The appropriation necessary for the
implementation of this Ordinance shal! be included by the City Budget Officer in the proposed
Annual Budget of the City Government.
SECTION 15. LOCAL DISASTER RISK REDUCTION AND MANAGEMENT FUND
(LDRRMH - SECTION 2l of Republic Act No. 10121 states that the LDRRMF amounting to not
less than five percent (5olo) of the estimated revenue from regular sources shall be set aside
to suppoft disaster risk management activities such as, but not limited to, the pre-disaster
preparedness programs including trainings, purchase of disaster response and rescue
equipment, supplies and medicines, for post-disaster response and rescue equipment, supplies
and medicines, for post-disaster activities, and payment of premiums on calamity insurance.
A. Allocation
Joint Memorandum Circular No. 2013-1, dated March 25,2013 of NDRRMC, Depaftment
of Budget and Management (DBM) and the Departrnent of the Interior and Local
Government (DILG) states that the LDRRMF shall cover the thirty percent (30o/o) lumpsum allocation for Quick Response Fund (QRF) and the seventy percent QAo/o)
allocation for disaster prevention and mitigation, preparedness, response, rehabilitation
and recovery.
B. Utilization
Joint Memorandum Circular No. 2013-1, dated March 25,2013, of NDRRMC, DBM and
DILG details the utilization of LDRRMF which includes Disaster Prevention and
Mitigation, Disaster Preparedness, Disaster Response, Disaster Rehabilitation and
Recovery, and Procurement/Acquisition of Disaster Response and Rescue Activities.
C. Update of Allocation, Utilization and Other Provisions of the Law
Allocation and utilization of LDRRMF shall follow updated guidelines, memorandum
circulars, laws, rules and regulations pursuant to the objectives of RA 10121.
SECTIOI| 15. SEPARABILITY CLAUSE - If, for any reason, any SECTION or provision
of this Ordinance shall be held unconstitutional or invalid, other pafts or provisions thereof
which are not affected shall continue to be in full force and effect.
sEcTIoN17.rc-Anyordinance,order,memorandum,rulesand
regulations which are inconsistent with the provisions of this Ordinance are hereby modified
or repealed accordingly.
SECTION 18.
approval.
This Ordinance shall take effect immediately upon
ENACTED, on the 25tr day of January 2022, by a unanimous vote of all the Members
of the Sanggunian, there being a quorum.
CERTIFIED CORRECT:
A 0/r-€ 1 /,^-
CHARTTO N.'Sf,NTOS
Secretary to the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod
(City Government Department Head II)6
ti

_i
t
.
(i
. i,
ATTESTED:
r
President
Temporary Presiding Officer
cns/johanna
Page 54 of #
Ord. No. 0866-22
APPROVED:
)tAR 2 I 20U
2022
SARA Z. DUTERTE
eciVM"yT
ATTESTED:
ATTY.
T.
City
Z. DUTERTE
Acllng Clty Mayor y
AN ORDINANCE UPDATING THE ORGANTZATIONAL STRUCTURE OF THE CITY DISASTER RISK REDUCTION AND
MANAGEMENT OFFTCE (CDRRMO) AND PROVIDING FUNDS THEREOF, SUBJECT TO ALL IAWS AND EXISTING
LEGAL RULES AND REGUI.ATIONS
e