Republic of 'the PhiliPPines
CitY df Davao
19th City Council
8th Regular Session
SERIES of 2022
PRESENT
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Albefto T. Ungab
- Temporary Presiding Officer
Ralph O. Abella
Nilo D. Abellera
Bai Hundra Cassandra Dominique N. Advincula
Wilbefto E. Al-ag
Dante L. Apostol Sr.
Conrado C. Baluran
lessica M. Bonguyan
Louie lohn J. Bonguyan
Pilar C. Braga
Augusto Javier G. Campos III
Danilo C. Dayanghirang
Jonard C. Dayap
Edgar P. Ibuyan Jr.
Edgar R. Ibuyan Sr.
Richlyn N. Justol-Baguilod
Pamela A. Librado-Morata
Diosdado Angelo Junior R. Mahipus
Rodolfo M. Mande
Jaffar U. Marohomsalic
Bonifacio E. Militar
Myrna G. L'Dalodo-Oftiz
Antoinette G. Principe-Castrodes
J. Melchor B. Quitain Jr.
Mary Joselle D. Villafuefte
Jesus Joseph P.Zozobrado III
Vice Mayor Sebastian Z. Dutefte
- OB-Acting City Mayor
ORDINANCE NO. 0893-22
SERIES of 2O22
AN ORDINANCE INSTITUTIONALIZTNG THE ALTERNATIVE
LEARNING SYSTEM (ALS) IN THE CITY OF DAVAO, PROVTDING
GUIDELINES THEREOF, ALLOCATING FUNDS AND FOR OTHER
PURPOSES
ABSENT:
1'
*r'

Ord. No. 0893-22
Be it ordained by the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod of Davao City in session assembled,
that:
SECTION 1. TITLE - This Ordinance shall be known as the
"ALTERNATM LEARNING SYSTEM (ALS) ORDINANCE OF DAVAO Cfil".
SECTION 2. DECLARATION OF POLICY - It shall be the policy of the Local
Government of Davao to seek organized means and systematic methods of institutionalizing
the Alternative Learning System (ALS).
Towards this end, the City shall provide out-of-school children in special cases and
adults with oppoftunities to improve their knowledge, values, life skills, and readiness for
higher education, work or self-employment through a system of non-formal or indigenous
education, or both which are tailored to respond to their learning needs and life
circumstances. The City shall also ensure the close paftnership and collaboration with the
barangays and private sectors.
SECTION 3. OBJECTMS This Ordinance aims to achieve the following
objectives:
a. Provide adequate, timely and quality attention and suppoft to the basic
learning needs of out-of-school children in special cases and adults including
indigenous people;
b, Guarantee equitable access for all learners, including those who reside in the
unreached, underserued, conflict-affected communities and communities in
emergency situations to avail of systematic, flexible and appropriate
alternative basic education program outside of the formal school system;
d. Hire, capacitate, and deploy ALS Teachers, Community ALS Implementors and
Learning Facilitators to deliver a range of ALS programs especially in far-flung,
unserued, underserued, conflict-affected communities, and communities in
emergency situations;
e. Design specialized programs for learners with disabilities, taking into
consideration their different levels of learning needs and other functional
difficulties in the development of instructional materials and learning resources
in accessible format;
t. Develop, integrate, and utilize non-formal and informal education approaches
and strategies in the delivery of the ALS programs and the assessment of
learning outcomes and competencies of ALS learners by providing flexibility in
the duration of learning programs, learning contents, and delivery strategies,
among others;
g. Improve access education and other learning oppoftunities and raise the level
of literacy to contribute to an individual's sustainable future; and
c. Promote lifelong learning oppoftunities anchored on the Alternative Learning
System (ALS), K to 12 Basic Education Curriculum (BEC) that takes a holistic,
integrated and inter-sectoral approach, and provide pathways across modes of
learning which will ensure that learners will become caring, self-reliant,
independent, productive and patriotic citizens, by allowing such learners to
pursue further education, after pafticipating in the ALS program and passing
the accreditation and equivalency assessments or ceftifications, or both
required by the Depaftment of Education (DepEd), or seek employment;

i
i i
Ord. No. 0893-22
h. Strengthen non-formal basic education programs while ensuring suppoft to
the policy of the DepEd that school age children should be enrolled in formal
education, and that they should be able to return to the formal education
system in the event that they drop out.
SECTION 4. DEFINITION OF TERMS - For purposes of this Ordinance, the
following shall mean:
a. Alternative Learning System K to 12 Basic Education Curriculum
(ALS K to 12 BEC) - shall refer to the comprehensive curriculum
indicating the competency, content, key stages, and standards for the
ALS program under this Ordinance. The ALS K to 12 BEC is benchmarked
on the DepEd formal school curriculum and focuses on the 21st Century
Skills, information, media and technology skills, learning and innovation
skills, communication skills, and life and career skills.
b. Alternative Learning System Teacher (ALS Teacher) - shall refer to
DepEd employed teachers who implement the ALS program.
c. Adult - shall refer to a person at least eighteen (18) years of age and
above.
d. Alternative Learning Sytem (ALS) - shall refer to a parallel learning
system that provides a viable alternative to the existing formal education
instruction. It encompasses both non-formal and informal source of
knowledge and skills.
e. Basic Literacy Program - shall refer to the program component of ALS
that is aimed at eradicating illiteracy among out-of-school children in
special cases and adults by developing basic literacy skills of reading,
writing, numeracy, and simple comprehension.
f. Community Alternative Learning System Implementors
(Community ALS Implementors) - shall refer to persons engaged
either by the Depaftment of Education or any Local Government Unit
(LGU) to deliver ALS programs to out-of-school children in special cases
and adults.
g. Community Learning Center (CLC) - shall refer to a physical space to
house learning resources and facilities of a learning program for out-ofschool children in special cases and adults. It is a venue for a face-to-face
learning activities and other learning oppoftunities for community
development and improvement of the people's quality of life.
h. Indigenous Peoples (IP) - refer to a group of people of homogenous
societies identified by self-ascription and ascription by others, who have
continuously lived as organized community on communally bounded and
defined territory, and who have under claims of ownership since time
immemorial, occupied, possessed and utilized such territories, sharing
common bonds of language, customs, tradition and other distinctive
culture traits or who have, through resistance to political, social and
cultural inroads of colonization became historically differentiated from the
majority of the Filipinos.

Ord. No. 0893-22
i. Indigenous Peoples Education - shall refer to the program that supports
education initiatives undeftaken through formal, non-formal, and informal
modalities with emphasis on any of, but not limited to, the key areas of
indigenous knowledge systems and practices and community history,
indigenous language, Indigenous Learning System (ILS), and community life
cycle-based curriculum and assessment, educational goals, aspirations and
competencies specific to the Indigenous Cultural Community (ICC),
engagement of elders and other community members in the teachinglearning process, assessment, and management of the initiative,
recognitional and continuing practice of the community's ILS, and the rights
and responsibilities of ICCs.
j. Informal Education - shall refer to diverse forms of learning that are
international or deliberate but are not institutionalized. It is a lifelong process
of learning by which every person acquires and accumulates knowledge,
skills, attitudes and insights from daily experiences at home, at work, at play
and from life itself towards literacy.
k. Learners with Disabilities - shall refer to those who have long-term
physical, mental, intellectual or sensory impairments which in interaction with
various barriers may hinder their full and effective participation in society on
equal basis with others.
l, Learning Facilitators - shall refer to teachers financed by the private
sector who implement ALS programs. The private sector shall include nongovernment organizations or associations, civic society organizations, or
individuals.
m. Micro-Ceftification, also known as micro-credentialing - shall refer to
a flexible means of certifying attainment of specific elements of ALS K to 12
minimum competencies which can be used by the holder as credential such
as in job application, recruitment and selection.
n. Non-Formal Education (NFE) shall refer to any organized and
systematic educational activity carried outside the framework of the formal
education system to provide selected types of learning to a segment of the
population.
o. Out-of-School Children in Special Cases - shall refer to children of
official school age who are not enrolled in the elementary or secondary
schools due to special cases such as economic, geographic, political, cultural,
or social barriers, including learners with disabilities or conditions, indigenous
peoples, children in conflict with the law, learners in emergency situations,
and other marginalized sectors.
SECTION 5. ALS PROGRAM - The City Government shall coordinate with the
Department of Education (DepEd) to strengthen the implementation of a range of priority NFE
programs including, but not limited to, the following:
a. Basic Literary Program;
b. A&EPrograms;
c. Indigenous Peoples Education Program;
d. Academic-Focused Bridging Programs; and
e. Functional Education and Literacy Programs

Ord. No. 0893-22
To effectively deliver the NFE programs, the city government may utilize appropriate,
relevant and responsive learning modalities but not limited to the following:
a. Modular Instruction;
b. Online, digital or mobile learning;
c. Face-to-face learning sessions and tutorials;
d. Radio or television-based instruction;
e. Blended learning or a combination of various modalities; and
f. Workshops, simulations, and internship to inculcate life skills, work readiness,
and entrepreneurship.
SECTION 6. INSTITUTIONALIZING THE ALS - The ALS is hereby institutionalized to
strengthen and expand the ALS program increased oppoftunities for out-of-school children in
special cases and adult learners, including indigenous peoples to develop basic and functional
literary and life skills and pursue an equivalent pathway to complete basic education. Thus,
Executive Order No. 46, SERIES of 2021issued by the City Mayor was issued for this purpose.
SECTION 7. CREATION AND ORGANIZATION OF THE ALTERNATIVE LEARNING
SYSTEM UNIT - The composition of the Alternative Learning System Unit (ALS Unit) as
mandated by Executive Order No. 46, SERIES of 2021is as follows:
Chairperson
Co-chairperson
- Office of the City Mayor
- Chairperson of the Committee of Education,
- Public Schools District Superuisor Division
Alternative Learning System Focal Person
- 1. Public Employment Seruice Office;
2. City Information Technology Center;
3. Schools Division Superintendent, Department of
Education - Region XI
4. President, Association of Barangay Captains; and
5. President, SANGGUNIANG Kabataan
Focal Person
Members
SECTION 8. DUTIES AND FUNCTIONS OF THE ALTERNATIVE LEARNING SYSTEM
UNIT - The ALS Unit shall have the following duties and functions:
a. Formulate programs, policies, and strategies for the implementation of the ALSEST Program in the City. For this purpose, the unit is hereby authorized to issue
Resolutions for strict implementation thereof;
b. Prepare short, medium, and long-term plans in relation to the implementation of
the programs, policies, and strategies;
c. Monitor and evaluate the implementation of the ALS-EST programs and plans,
campaigns and programs;
d. Encourage out-of-school youth identified by the ALS Division to avail of the ALSEST Program;
e. Recommend to the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod the enactment of Ordinances
which shall assist in and ensure the proper implementation of the ALS-EST
Program;
f. Recommend allocation of resources and ensure appropriate funds thereof;
I

Ord. No. 0893-22
g. Act as the primary arm that shall represent the City in all conventions,
conferences, forums, or gathering of other agencies, organizations, leagues,
chambers, or groupings whether national, local, or international peftaining to the
ALS-EST Program;
h. In coordination with the appropriate office, closely monitor the number of out-ofschool youth in every Barangay of this City;
i. Act as the custodian of the gadgets and resources that will be entrusted by the
Development Academy of the Philippine (DAP) prior to its award and turnover to
qualified beneficiaries of the ALS-EST Program;
j. Exeft effort to sustain the ALS-EST Program, whether through the mechanism
established by DAP or in accordance with the guidelines created by the
Department of Education ALS Task Force; and
k. Perform such other tasks and functions related to the overall objectives of the
ALS-EST Program of the City.
SECTION 9. FUNCTIONS OF THE FOCAL PERSON - The Department of Education -
Division Alternative Learning System is hereby designated as the Focal Person of the ALS Unit
and shall perform the following functions:
a. Organize all the activities of the ALS Unit;
b. Recommend programs, policies and strategies for implementation of the ALS-EST
Program in this City;
c. Prepare short, medium and long-term plans in relation to the programs, policies
and strategies of the ALS-EST Program of the City;
d. Monitor and evaluate the implementation of its programs and plans, campaigns
and strategies;
e. Document all activities of the ALS Unit; and
f. Keep all the records of the ALS Unit;
g, Perform such other functions as may be assigned by the ALS Unit.
SECTION 10. FUNCTIONS OF THE SECRETARIAT - The Office of the City Mayor is
hereby directed as the Secretariat of the ALS Unit and shall perform the following functions:
a. Serue as the center of communication of the ALS Unit by facilitating the receiving
and dissemination of information from and to members of the ALS Unit, and to
other concerned personnel or agencies; and
b. Document and take the minutes of all meetings of the ALS Unit.
SECTION 11. ALS FACILITY - The Davao City Division ALS Community Learning
Center is hereby designated as the facility for the ALS-EST Program of the City.
SECTION 12. FUNDING/OPERATING COSTS - All costs pertaining to the
operation of the ALS Unit shall be taken from the available funds of the City Government of
Davao subject to the usual accounting and auditing rules and regulations.
SECTION 13. REPEALING CIAUSE. - All other laws, decrees, orders, issuances,
rules and regulations which are inconsistent with the provisions of this Ordinance are
hereby repealed, amended or modified accordingly.

PageT of7
Ord. No. 0893-22
SECTION 14. SEPARABILIW CTAUSE - If, for any reason, doy provision of this
Ordinarrce, or any paft thereof, is declared invalid or unconstitutional, all other sections or
provisions not affected thereby shall remain in force and effect.
SECTION 15. EFFECTMW - This Ordinance shall take effect fifteen (15) days
after publication.
ENACTED, February 22, 2022, by a unanimous vote of all the Members of the
Sanggunian present, there being a quorum.
CERTIFIED CORRECT:
^ Unn;; \.'l'",--
CHARTTO N. S4NTOS
Secretary to the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod
(City Government Department Head II)p
ATTESTED:
ATTESTED:
,rflwlAISERTOI.T. UNGAB
'Acting Vice Mayor
Temporary Presiding Officer
cns/ser
ATTY
l1^P N
APPROVED: lrlAR ? 5 7f122, 2022
SARA Z. DUTERTE
'
City Mayor
v
Z
chv
DUTEBTE
lrryr Y
KA
PEZ
City Admin
O
AN ORDINANCE INSTITUTIONALIZING THE ALTERNATIVE LEARNING SYSTEM (ALS) IN THE
CITY OF DAVAO, PROVIDING GUIDELINES THEREOF, ALLOCATING FUNDS AND FOR OTHER
PURPOSES
J