19th City Council
23d Regular Session
SERIES of 2022
PRESENT:
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Cpuncilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Edgar P. Ibuyan Jr.
- Temporary Presiding Officer
Ralph O. Abella
Nilo D. Abellera
Luna Maria Dominique S. Acosta
Bai Hundra Cassandra Dominique N. Advincula
Wilberto E. A!-ag
Dante L. Apostol Sr.
Conrado C. Baluran
Jessica M. Bonguyan
Louie John J. Bonguyan
Pilar C. Braga
Augusto Javier G. Campos III
Jonard C. Dayap
Edgar R lbuyan SrRichlyn N. Justol-Baguilod
Pamela A. Librado-Morata
Diosdado Angelo Junior R. Mahipus
Rodolfo M. Mande
laffar U. Marohornsalic
Myrna G. L'Dalodo-Oftiz
Antoinette G. Principe-Castrodes
J. Melchor B. Quitain Jr.
Alberto T. Ungab
Mary Joselle D. Villafuerte
Jesus Joseph P. Zozobrado III
- OB+cting Crty Mayor
ABSENT:
Vice Mayor
Councilor
Councilor
Sebastian Z. Dutefte
Danilo C. Dayanghirang
Bonifacio E. Militar
- On Sick Leave
ORDINANCE ItO. O987.22
SERIES of 2022
AN ORDINANCE FURTHER AMENDING CITY ORDINANCE NO.
0361-10, SERTfS OF 2O1;O, OTHERIflTSE l$towil AS TttE
*DAVAO CITY ECOLOGICAL SOTID WASTE MANAGEMENT
ORDINAilCE"

Ord. No. 0987-22
Be it ordained by the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod of Davao City, in session
assembled, that:
SECTION 1.- SECTION 3 of City Ordinance No. 036f-10 is hereby
amended to read as follows:
SECTION 3. DEFINITION OF TERMS.
a) Agricultural Waste shall refer to waste from planting or harvesting of
crops, trimming or pruning of plants and trees, and waste or run-off
materials from farms or fields;
b) Ambulant Vendor or Peddler shall mean any individual or person who
sells any kind of goods, merchandise, commodity or service while walking,
moving or traveling about, or who does not have a fixed stall, store or
place of vending or seruice;
c) Barangay shall refer to the Barangay Local Government Unit;
d) Biodegradable shall refer to materials capable of being decomposed by
biologicals;
e) Biodegradable Waste shall refer to any waste that is capable of
undergoing anaerobic or aerobic decomposition, such as food waste, yard
waste and wet paper and cafton;
0 Bulky Wastes shall refer to waste materials which cannot be
appropriately placed in separate containers because of either its bulky
size, shape or other physical attributes. These include large worn-out or
broken household, commercial, and industrial items such as furniture,
lamps, bookcases, filing cabinets, and other similar items;
g) Buy-back Center shal! refer to a recycling center that purchases or
otherwise accepts recyclable materials from the public for the purpose of
recycling such materials;
h) Checkout Bag is a carryout bag provided by a retail establishment or
vendor at the point of sale or other point of depafture for the purpose of
transpofting food or merchandise;
i) City shall refer to the City Government of Davao;
j) City ENRO shall refer to the City Environment and Natural Resources
Office;
k) Collection shall refer to the act of removing solid waste from the source
or from a common storage point;
l) Community Seruice shall refer to the service that benefits the local
community. It shall be imposed to violators of this Ordinance as a penalty
in itself or in lieu of fine imposed against him;

Ord. No. 0987-22
m) Composting shall refer to the controlled decomposition of organic matter
by micro-organisms, mainly bacteria and fungi, into a humus-like product;
n) Consumer Electronics Waste shall refer to special wastes that include
worn-out, broken, and other discarded items such as cellular phones,
radios, stereos, W sets, computer pafts and hardware, and all wastes
emanating or as a result of a defective electronic device;
o) Domesticated Animal shall refer to a household pet kept for
companionship and enjoyment;
p) Disposal shall refer to the discharge, deposit, dumping, spilling, leaking
or placing of any solid waste into or in any land;
q) Ecological Solid Waste Management shall refer to the systematic
administration of activities which provide for segregation at source,
segregated transportation, storage, transfer, processing, treatment, and
disposal of solid waste and all other waste management activities which
do not harm the environment;
r) Generation shall refer to the act or process of producing solid waste;
s) Generator shal! refer to a person, latural or juridical, who last uses a
material and makes it available for disposal or rrycling;
0 Grocely store shall refer to a shop selling foodstuff and household
supplies among others;
u) Hazardous Waste shall refer to solid waste management or
combination of solid waste which because of its quantity, concentration
or physical, chemical or infectious characteristics may:
(1) cause, or significantly contribute to an increase in moftality or an
increase in serious irreversible, or incapacitating reversible, illness;
or
(2) pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health or the
environment when improperly treated, stored, transpofted, or
disposed of, or otherwise managed;
u) Hazatdous Wafie Containment Facilitv shall refer to the disoosal
facilitv for houshold hazardous wastes.
w) Littering From Vehicles is the act of indiscriminately scattering food
leftovers, wrappers, plastic botUes and other similar wastes in streets by
drivers, passengers or commuters.
x) Materials Recoveqy Facility shall include a solid waste transfer station
or softing station, drop-off center, a composting facility, and a recycling
facility;
y) Mobile Garage Bin shall refer to the receptacles with wheels distributed
to garbage collection points by the City Government of Davao for use as

Ord. No. 0987-22
temporary storage containers for biodegradable and residual wastes;
(cENRO)
z) Municipal Waste shall refer to wastes produced from activities within
local government units which include a combination of domestic,
commercial, institutional and industrial wastes and street Iitters;
aa) Open Burning shall refer to therma! destruction by means of direct
exposure to fire; (CENRO)
bb) Open Dump shall refer to a disposal area wherein the solid wastes are
indiscriminately thrown or disposed of without due planning and
consideration for environmental and health standards;
cc) Paper Bags shall refer to sturdy bags made of recycled paper that can
be used repeatedly by shoppers;
dd) Percon(s) shall refer to any being, natural or juridical, susceptible of
rights and obligations, or of being the subject of legal relations;
ee) Plastic bag or pouch or sando bag is a non-biodegradable type of
flexible packaging made of thin, flexible, plastic film used for containing
and transpofting foods, produce, powders, ice, chemicals, waste, etc.;
tr) Pofisfyrene foam or styrofoam shall refer to non-biodegradable food
container such as cups, plates and "clam-shell" boxes which are made of
polystyrene;
gg) Public Ma*et shall refer to thos market olaces " 'ildings that are
owned and operated by the CiU Government of Davao;
hh) Receptacles shall refer to individual containers used for the source
separation and the collection of solid wastes; (CENRO)
ii) Recyclable material shall refer to any waste material retrieved from the
waste stream and free from contamination that can still be convefted into
suitable beneficial use or for other purposes including, but not limited to,
newspaper, ferrous scrap metal, non-ferrous scrap metal, used oil, corrugated
cardboard, aluminum, glass, office paper, tin cans and other materials as may
be determined by the National Solid Waste Management Commission;
jj) Recycling shall refer to the treating of used or waste materials through a
process of making them suitable for beneficial use and for other purposes, and
includes any process by which solid waste materials are transformed into new
products in such a manner that the original product may lose their identity,
and which may be used as raw materials for the production of other goods or
seruices: Provided, that the collection, segregation and re-use of previously
used packaging material shall be deemed recycling under this Ordinance'
kk) Residual Wastes shall refer to those wastes that remain after processing
at a Materials Recovery Facility or that which remain after recovery of

I
I
Ord. No. 0987-22
products and/or energy, which are non-biodegradable;
ll) Residua! Containment Area shall refer to a temporary facility for the
storage of residual wastes;
mm) Resource Recovery shall refer to the collection, extraction or recovery of
recyclable materials from the waste stream for the purpose of recycling,
generating energy or producing a product suitable for beneficial use:
Provided, that such resource recovery facilities exclude incineration;
nn) Re-use shall refer to the process of recovering materials intended for the
same or different purpose without the alteration of physical and chemical
characteristics;
oo) Reusable Bags shall refer to any bag capable of being used again
repeatedly;
pp) Sanitary Landfill shall refer to a waste disposal site designed,
constructed, operated and maintained in a manner that exefts engineering
control over significant potential environmental impacts arising from the
development and operation of the facility;
qq) Segregation shall refer to a solid waste management practice of separating
different materials found in solid waste in order to promote recycling and reuse of resources and to reduce the volume of waste for collection and
disposal;
rr) Segregation at source shall refer to a solid waste management practice of
separating, at the point of origin, different materials found in solid waste in
order to promote recycling and re-use of resources and to reduce the volume
of waste for collection and disposal;
ss) Solid Waste shall refer to all discarded household waste, commercial
waste, non-hazardous institutional and industrial waste, street sweepings,
construction debris, agricultural waste, and other non-hazardous/non-toxic
solid waste;
tt) Solid Waste Management shall refer to the discipline associated with the
control of generation, storage, collection, transfer and transport, processing,
and disposal of solid wastes in a manner that is in accord with the best
principles of public health, economics, engineering, conseruation, aesthetics,
and other environmental considerations, and that is also responsive to public
attitudes;
uu) Solid Waste Management Facilitv shall refer to anv resource recovery
rystem or component thereof; any sstem program or facilitv for resurce
conseruation' any facilitv for the collution, source separation storage

Ord. No. 0987-22
transoortation transfer, processing treatnent, or disposal of solid waste
such as Sanitary Landfill, Waste-to-Energv Materials Recovery FaciliV
(MRF\, Composting and Hazardous Waste Containment FaciliV of the Citv'
w) Source Reduction shall refer to the reduction of solid waste before it
enters the solid waste stream by methods such as product design, materials
su bstitution, materials re-use and packag i n g restrictions;
ww) Source Separation shall refer to the sorting of solid waste into some or
all of its component parts at the point of generation;
xx/ Special Wastes shall refer to household hazardous wastes such as paints,
thinners, household batteries, lead-acid batteries, spray canisters and the
!ike. These include wastes from residential and commercial sources that
comprise of bulky wastes, consumer electronics, white goods, yard wastes
that are collected separately, batteries, oil, and tires. These wastes are
usually handled separately from other residential and commercial wastes;
yy) Street Sweepings are materials such as sand, salt, leaves, broken glass,
small pieces of metal, and other litter and debris removed from streets,
parking lots and sidewalks.
z.) Storage shall refer to the interim containment of solid wastes after
generation and prior to collection for ultimate recovery or disposal;
aaa) Store shall refer to any place where goods are sold directly to the
consumers, which shall include, but not Iimited to, depaftment store,
convenience store, sari-sari store and market place;
bbb) Technologicaily fnnouative Facilities shall refer to facilities which
recycles and - converB wastes with uarious technologies includes the
convedon or non-reqclable waste materials into ureable heat, electriciU,
fuel eneray throuoh a varieU of prrcesss indudina but not limited to a
WtE FaciliU;
ccc) Toxic Waste shall refer to wastes covered by Republic Act No. 6969,
otherwise known as the "Toxic Substances and Hazardous and Nuclear
Wastes Control Act of 1990" and are excluded from the term "solid waste" as
used in this Ordinance. It includes the following:
(I/ Waste identified or listed under Republic Act No. 6969 as
hazardous waste of a solid, liquid, contained gaseous or semisolid
form which may cause or contribute to an increase in mortality or
in serious or incapacitating irreversible illness, or acute/chronic
effect on the health of persons and other organisms;

Ord. No. 0987-22
(2) Infedious waste from hospitals, clinics and health centers, such
as equipment, instruments, utensils, and fomites of a disposable
nature from patients who are suspected to have or have been
diagnosed as having communicable diseases and must therefore
be isolated as required by public health agencies, laboratory
wastes such as pathological specimens (i.e. all tissues, specimens
of blood elements, excreta, and secretions obtained from patients
or laboratory animals) and disposable fomites that may harbor or
transmit pathogenic organisms, and surgical operating room
pathologic specimens and disposable fomites attendant thereto,
and similar disposable materials from outpatient areas and
emergency rooms; and
(3/ Waste resulting from mining activities, including contaminated soil
and debris.
ddd) Transfer Stations shall refer to those facilities utilized to transfer the
solid wastes directly from smaller to larger vehicles for transport. Such
facilities may have areas to segregate wastes and store recovered
biodegradable or recyclable materials;
eee) Waste Matterc shall refer to fruit peelings, pieces of paper, cartons,
plastic wrappers or containers, disposable food and beverage containers and
other wastes materials or unsanitary things;
trf) White Goods shal! refer to large worn-out or broken household,
commercial, and industrial appliances such as stoves, refrigerators,
dishwashers, and clothes washers and dryers collected separately. White
goods are usually dismantled for the recovery of specific materials (e.9.,
copper, aluminum, etc.);
ggg) Waste-to-Energy (WtE) shall refer to the process of convefting wastes
with various technologies, usually the conversion of non-recyclable waste
materials into useable heat, electricity, or fue! through a variety of processes;
hhh) WtE FaciliU shall refer to the structure rff,qtenant faciliV where the
waste-to-energy operations are h ousd'
iii) Yard Waste shall refer to wood, smal! or chipped branches, leaves, grass
clippings, garden debris, vegetable residue that is recognizable as part of a
plant or vegetable and other materials identified by the National Solid Waste
Management Commission.
SECTION 2. - SECTION 5 of City Ordinance No. 0361-10 is hereby
amended to read as follows:

Ord. No. 0987-22
SECTION 5. USE OF RECYCTABLE, REUSABLE AND
BIODEGRADABTE CHECKOUT BAGS AI{D CONTAI]TERS. - AII stores,
as well as. ambulant vendors in Davao City shal! sell or provide only the
following as checkout bags or containers to customers:
a)
Recycled or recyclable paper bags;
b)
Biodegradable plastic bags;
c)
Reusable bags, such as cloth bags and other eco baos;
d)
Bags made of indigenous materials, such as buri, abaca, anahaw,
bamboo and pineapple; or
e)
Used corrugated boxes or caftons.
Biodegradable olastic bags must be properly disposed of like any other
solid waste material and should not be thrown in canal+ water bodies.
vacant lots and other public places.
SECTION 3. - SECTION 6 of City Ordinance No. 0361-10 is hereby
amended to read as follows:
SECTION 6. INDMDUAL PARTICIPATIOI{. - Shoppers or customers
in all stores in Davao City are encouraged to provide for themselves
reusable and recyclable shopping bags such as those enumerated in
SECTION 5, when shopping or buying from stores. They are also
encouraged to refuse a checkout bag from the store when buying small
items (like a CD, candy, etc.) that do not require a bag.
All stores, unless necessarv, shall not orovide olastic checkout baos for
ourchases of small items that may be held by hand by anv customer.
SECTIOil 4. - SECTION 8 of City Ordinance llo. 0361-1O is hereby
amended to read as follows:
SECTION 8. DISPOSAL OF CARCASS OF ANIMALS. - Carcasses of
domestic animals should be disposed by burying them at least two (2) ftet
under the ground. The disposal of carcasses of farm animals and other
animals shal! be subject to the guidelines set by the City Health Office and
the City Veterinarian's Office.
SECTION 5. - SECTION 9 of City Ordinance No. 0361-1O is hereby
amended to read as follows:
SECTION 9.
. -
Excreta of domestic animals should be disposed by burying and/or
through toileUseptic tank. No animal excreta shall be thrown inside the
mobile garbage bins. The disposal of excreta of farm animals and other
animals shall be subject to the guidelines set by the City Health Office and
the Citv Veterinarian's Office.

Ord. No. 0987-22
SECTION 6. - SECTION 10 of City Ordinance No. 0361-10 is hereby
amended to read as follows:
SECTION 10. MANDATORY SEGREGATION OF SOLID WASTE. - The
segregation of waste at source by generators such as institutional,
industrial, commercial and agri-industrial establishments and households,
shall be mandatory.
The barangays, throuoh their Barangay Solid Waste Manaoement
Committee, shall be responsible to ensure that mandatory segregation of
solid waste shall be comolied with.
For this ourpose. Baranoay Ecological and Solid Waste Management
Council (BESWMC) may seek the assistance of other individuals. entities,
or groups on the community.
SECTION 7. - SECTION 11 of City Ordinance I{o. O361-1O is hercby
amended to read as follows:
SECTION 11. TYPES OF SOLID WASTE. - Solid waste shall be segregated
into the following categories:
. Biodegradable
. Recyclable
. Residual
. Special Waste
Recyclables may be fufther segregated into different types of materials
includino. but not Iimited to. paper. metal. plastic. boftles and other similar
items for disposal to buyers or processors.
SECTION 8. - SECTION 13 of City Ordinance No. 0361-10 is hereby
amended to read as follows:
SECTION 13. WASTE RECEPTACLES IN VEHICIES. - Public utility
vehicles for land or water transportation are required to put up or install
waste receptacles inside their vehicles. Private vehicles are encouraged to
do the same.
Waste receptacles inside vehicles are only for temoorary storaoe. If
separate containers for different types of waste cannot be provided inside
the vehicle due to space constraints. one receptacle may be used,
orovided that wastes in receotacle used should be segreoated before
disposal to collection points.
It shall be the duty of the drivers and/or operators of the vehicles to
prooerlv segregate and disoose the said wastes.

Ord. No. 0987-22
SECTION 9. - SECTION 16 of City Ordinance No. 0361-10 is hereby
amended to read as follows:
SECTION 16. COTLECTION POINTS. - Unless otherwise allowed or
required bv the City ENRO. collection of solid waste by the Citv shall be
through collection points. The Barangay in coordination with the City ENRO,
shal! identiff and designate collection points for residual and/or special
waste and/or other waste to be collected by the City. Unsegreoated solid
waste shall not be disposed of in any desionated collection points.
Solid waste collection by the Barangay may be throuoh house to house or
establishment collection and/or through drop off at the Barangay Materials
Recovery Facility.
SECTION 10. - SECTION L7 of City Ordinance No. 0361-10 is hereby
amended to read as follows:
SECTION 17. MANDATORY SEGREGATED COLLECTIOil AND
TRANSPORT. - Segregated collection and transport of solid waste shall
be mandatory. There shall be different collection schedules for the
different types of solid waste. The collection of different types of waste on
the same schedule may be allowed, provided that, separate collection
vehicles or vehicles with compartments are used.
The City ENRO shall conduct segreqated collection on the followino types
of solid wastes:
a/ Biodegradable from government owned markets and slauohterhouses;
b/ Residual waste from City ENRO collection points; and
c/ Soecial waste ftom City ENRO collection points.
Barangays shall conduct segregated collection of the following Woes of solid
wastes:
a/ Biodegradables; and
b/ Recyclable wastes
The Baranqay may identiry, oroanize, deButize, or designate volunteer
solid waste segregators within their area of responsibility including waste
oickers as volunteer oartners in solid waste management.
SECTION 11. - SECTION 19 of City Ordinance No. 0361-10 is hereby
amended to read as follows:
SECTION 19. SCHEDULE OF COLLECTION BY THE CITY ENRO. -

Ord. No. 0987-22
The City ENRO shall prepare the schedules for the segregated collection
and transpoft of residual and special solid waste from the different
collection points. The collection schedule shall be thoroughly disseminated
by the City ENRO to the Barangay and to concerned establishments.
Disposal of solid wastes. unless otherwise allowed by City ENRO. shall be
in accordance to these prescribed schedules. Barangays may oromulgate
rules within their areas of resoonsibility in order to facilitate obseruance of
the prescribed schedules.
SECTION 12. - SECTION 20 of City Ordinance No. 0361-10 is hereby
amended to read as follows:
SECTION 20, MAINTENAilCE OF COLLECTIOI{ POINTS. - The
Barangay shall be responsible for the maintenance and cleanliness of the
collection points and their surrounding area in their respective Barangays.
In .eqp of chrstprina of collpction noints hoth haranoavs qhall he
responsible for the maintenance and cleanliness of the collection points
and their surrounding area.
Waste Pickers shal! be given an orientation by the Barangav and it shal! be
the responsibiliW of the Baranoay to impose waste oicking rules.
SECTION 13. - SECTION 2L of City Ordinance No. 0361-10 is hereby
amended to read as follows:
SECTION 21. TRANStrORT OF LARGE qUANTITIES OF RESIDUAT
AND SPECIAL WASTES. - Unless otherwise allowed under paragraph 2
hereof, the City ENRO shall not collect large quantities of residual and/or
special wastes with a volume of three (3) cubic meters or more from any
source except public markets. The generators of such quantity shall be
responsible for the transpoft of the same to the Solid Waste Management
Facilities of the City.
Establishments or entities, which generate large quantities of residual
and/or special wastes with a volume of three (3) cubic meters or more
mav enter into arranoements with the City ENRO. the Barangay, and/or
other private hauling seruices for the hauling of the same. Such
arranoement may include the payment of fees for the seruices orovided,
in accordance to the CiW's Tax Revenue Code or a Barangay ordinance as
may be allowed under the law.
The Baranoav shall maintain a list of all establishments or entities which
generate Iarge quantities of residual and/or special waste with a volume
of three (3) cubic meters or more within their area of responsibiliW based
on available data. information, and assessments which shall be submitted
to the City ENRO and regularlv updated.
The City ENRO shall require establishments or entities which generate large

Ord. No. 0987-22
quantities of residual and/or specia! wastes with a volume of three (3) cubic
meters or more in the City to identifo, for recordinE purpose+ the provider
of haulino seruices engaoed bv the said establishments or entity includino
the oroiected interual of collections or hauling of solid waste.
The City ENRO shall promulgate rules to regularly monitor the solid waste
disoosal of large volume generatorc which oenerates large ouantities of
residual and/or special waste with a volume of three (3) cubic meters or
more and the haulino activities of the Barangav and private service
oroviders for purposes of determining proper disoosal of solid waste
colffied.
Private seruice providers enoaged in the hauling of solid waste shall be
required to register for accreditation with the CiW ENRO.
SECTION t4.- SECTION 22 of City Ordinance No. O361-10 is hereby
amended to read as follows:
SECTION 22. COVER FOR DUMP TRUCKS AT{D OTHER OPEN WASTE
COLLECTION VEHICLES. - Government and private solid waste
collectors shall completely cover dump trucks or any other open collection
vehicles with nets, sacks or tarpaulin to prevent wastes from being blown
or sffewn and to minimize odor during transport.
Owners and drivers of dump trucks and other waste collection vehicles
which caused littering on the roads/streets shall be responsible to clean up
the same.
SECTION 15. - SECTION 28 of City Ordinance ilo. 0361-10 is hereby
amended to read as follows:
SECTION 28. MATERIALS RECOVERY FACILITY (MRF) AND BUYBACK CENTER, - Individual Barangays or clusters of Barangays shall
establish a Materials Recovery Facility (MRF).
The City shall assist the Barangays in recycling or processing
biodegradable and recyclable wastes into fuel, construction materials or
into other uses.
BaranEays may desiEnate establishments having a Solid Waste
Management Ceftificate, such as junk shoos and reqfclers within their
respective areas that will serue as their buy-back center.
Commercial establishments and/or residentia! subdivision develooments in
The barangavs, commercial establishments, and/or residential subdivision
developments shall endeavor to find and link up with buyers. processors
or users of all tvpes of recyclable materials.

Ord. No. 0W7-22
SECTION 15. - SECTION 30 of City (Hinance ilo. 0361-1O is hereby
amended to read as follows:
SECTION 30. GUIDELINES FOR MRF AND BUY-BACK CENTERS. -
MRFs and buy-back center operators shall not be allowed to place or
dispose of their waste along the sidewalk.
They shall follow guidelines on good housekeeping, sanitation and zoning as
prescribed by the City and other concerned agencies.
MRFs and buv-back centers shall store their recvclable waste materials
clean and safe and keeo their premises clean and tidy and shall always
institute wavs to control emission of fou! odors. The said establishments
shorlld be prooerly constructed with a roof to prevent rainwater to
accumulate within the recvclable materials.
SECTION L7. - SECTION 31 of City Ordinance No. 0361-10 is hereby
amended to read as follows:
SECTION 31. DISPOSAL - All residual ana-+peeiat waste shall be
disposed in the sanitary landfill or technolooicallv innovative facilities or
other solid waste manaoement facility of the City. Special waste shall be
disposed in Hazardous Waste Containment Facilities.
SECTION 18. - SECTION 32 of City Ordinance t{o. 0361-10 is hereby
amended to read as follows:
SECTION 32.
. - Private solid waste
haulers providing seruices for establishments in the City may be allowed to
dispose the collected residual in the Solid Waste Management Facilities of
the City, sanitaru landfi!|, technolooically innovative facilities, or other solid
management facilities of the City for a oaunent of tipping fee. Soecial
waste disposed in Hazardous Waste Containment Facility shall also be
assessed with fees.
SECTION 19. - SECTION M oi City Ordinance No. 0361-10 is hereby
amended to read as follows:
SECTION 44.
. - The following
acts and omissions are prohibited and shal! be penalized:
I. Littering, scattering, throwing, and dumping of waste matters in public
places, such as roads, sidewalks, canals, esteros, gutters, manholes,
parks, public playgrounds, public school campuses, public buildings,
establishments, riverbanks, coastlines, rivers, lakes, creeks, and seas,
or causing or permitting the same. The throwino and dumping of
waste matter in designated collection points outside of the prescribed

Ord. No. 0987-22
time schedule is also orohibited.
2. Littering from vehicles;
3. Leaving or abandoning construction materials or debris on the public
road;
4. Dumping of human excreta in mobile garbage bins or collection points;
5. Dumping excreta or carcass of animals in mobile garbage bins or
collection points;
6. Removal of mobile garbage bin from designated collection points
without authorization from the Barangay;
7. l\e open burning of solid waste;
8. Non-segregation of solid waste;
9. Causing or permitting the collection of non-segregated or unsorted
waste;
10. Mixing, causing or permitting the mixing of toxic and hazardous
wastes (THW) from health care facilities, industries and other THW
generators in the municipal waste collected by the City;
11. Dumping of waste in areas other than the disposal facility of the
City;
12. Open dumping, burying of biodegradable or non- biodegradable
materials in flood-prone areas;
13. Operating without a Solid Waste Management Ceftificate as
prescribed in this Ordinance;
14. Non-implementation of the Solid Waste Management Plan and
Program submitted as part of the requirements for the issuance of the
Solid Waste Management Ceftificate;
15. Refusing entry to the City ENRO or its duly authorized
representative while in the exercise of its visitorial powers provided in
this Ordinance;
16. Violation of any other provision of this Ordinance.
SECTION 20. SEPARABILIW CLAUSE. - If, for any reason, any SECTION or
provision of this Ordinance is declared unconstitutional or invalid, other sections or
provisions hereof not affected by such declaration shall continue to be in full force and
effect.
SECTION 21. EFFECTMTY. The provisions of this Ordinance shall take effect
Fifteen (15) days after its publication.
ENACTED, on the 21't of June 2022, by a unanimous vote of all the Members of
the Sanggunian present.

PaEe 15 of 15
Ord. No. 0987-22
CERTIFIED CORRECT:
,,+W#.&#a
AfiESTED:
ATTESTED:
SARA Z. DUTERTE
cirv Mavy e
President
Temporary Presiding
cns/aya
ATTY.
Secretary to the SanEgunianE Panlungsod
(City Government Department Head II)4
A.Jq lo
APPROVED:
AUG IO AA
2022
Z. DLTTERIE
}I. LAYOB
City Mayor
ATTY.
City Admin
AN ORDINANCE FUR]TER AMENDING CITY ORDINANCE NO. 0361-10, SERIES OF
2010, OTHERWISE KNOWN AS THE "DAVAO CITY ECOLOGICAL SOLID WASTE
MANAGEMENT ORDINANCE"