Republic of the Philipflnes
Ofrice of the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod
I
19th City Council
44th Regular Session
SERIES of 202L
PRESENT
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
ABSENT:
Albefto T. Ungab
- Temporary Presiding Officer
Ralph O. Abella
Nilo D. Abellera
Bai Hundra Cassandra Dominique N. Advincula
Wilbefto E. Al-ag
Dante L. Apostol Sr.
Conrado C. Baluran
Jessica M. Bonguyan
Louie John J. Bonguyan
Pilar C. Braga
Augusto Javier G. Campos III
Danilo C. Dayanghirang
Jonard C. Dayap
Edgar P. Ibuyan Jr.
Edgar R. Ibuyan Sr.
Richlyn N. Justol-Baguilod
Diosdado Angelo Junior R. Mahipus
Jaffar U. Marohomsalic
Pamela A. Librado-Morata
Myrna G. L'Dalodo-Ortiz
Antoinette G. Principe-Castrodes
J. Melchor B. Quitain Jr.
Mary Joselle D. Villafuefte
Jesus Joseph P. Zozobrado III
Vice Mayor
Councilor
Sebastian Z. Duterte
Maria Belen S. Acosta
- On Official Business
- OB- Attended a meeting with
the Commercial Attachd of
SwiEerland
- On Sick Leave
Councilor Bonifacio E. Militar
ORDINANCE NO. O782-2L
SERIES of 2O2l
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING ORDINANCE NO. 0334-12,
SERTES OF 2OL2, OTHERWTSE KNOWN AS THE
*COMPREHENSIVE TRANSPORT AND TRAFFIC CODE OF
DAVAO CITY" IN CONFORMIW WITH THE AMENDED
BICYCLE ORDINANCE OF DAVAO CITY"

Page2 of 10
Ord. No. 0782-2L
Be it ordained by the Honorable SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod of Davao City, in session
assembled, that:
SECTION 1. EtE - This Ordinance shall be known as "AN ORDINANCE
AMENDING ORDINANCE NO. 0334-12, SERIES OF 2012, OTHERWTSE KNOWN
AS THE'COMPREHENSIVE TRANSPORT AND TRAFFIC CODE OF DAVAO CITY"
IN CONFORMIW WITH THE AMENDED BICYCLE ORDINANCE OF DAVAO CITY";
SECTION 2. AMENDMENTS - The following provisions of the Comprehensive
Transport and Traffic Code of Davao City of 20t2, is hereby amended to read as follows;
SECTION 5. DEFINITION OF TERMS - When used in this Code, the
following terms shall mean and defined as follows:
5. Bicycle - a vehicle propelled by human pedal power or electric assisted bike
(or e-bike), not exceeding B0 cm in width; a two-wheeled vehicle or trike
propelled solely by human pedal power, and other two-wheeled vehicles which
are propelled by human power, and alternately or mutually, propelled by electric
power;
6. Bicycle Path or Lane - a generic term for any portion of a highway, road or
street which is designated for birycle or light mobility vehicle travel where
motorized transport is not allowed;
67. Light Mobility Vehicles - refer to travel using electric assisted or nonmotorized vehicles weighing not more than 100 kgs such, as but not limited to,
Electric Kick Scooters and Segway excluding electric motorcycles weighing less
than 100 kgs;
68. Shared roadway - a roadway which is open to both bicycle and motor vehicle
travel which is unmarked by a bicycle lane;
69. Signed shared roadway - a shared roadway which has been improved and
designated with a signage for bicycle or light mobility vehicle use or has a
dedicated bicycle lane;
SECTION 14. KEEPING AS FAR RIGHT AS PRACTICABLE - Unless
otherwise provided for in this Code, a driver shall keep his/her vehicle as close as
practicable to the right boundary of the thoroughfare except when there are two
or more lanes marked on the thoroughfare available exclusively for traffic direction
in which the driver is traveling and except when there is a designated bicycle lane.
Heavy trucks/vehicles must slow down and let bikers pass through the bicycle lane
to avoid adjacent movement.
SECTION 27. GIVING WAY DURING TURNS -
(b) a driver turning to the right or left of an intersection shall give way to
all pedestrians and bikers/cyclists;
(c) a driver making a U-turn shall give way to all other vehicles,
bikers/cyclists, and all pedestrians;
I

Ord. No. 0782-2L
SECTION 28. MOVEMENT TO OR FROM PARKED VEHICLES -
(a) A driver who is about to drive or driving a vehicle into or out from a
parking area or the boundary of a thoroughfare shall give way to all other
vehicles and cyclists;
ARTICLE XIV
OPERATION OF ANIMAL.DRAWN CARRIAGES
SECTION 78. EFFECT OF REGULATIONS. The regulations applicable to
animal-drawn carriages shall apply whenever animal-drawn carriages are operated
upon any road or upon any path set aside for the exclusive use of such carriages.
SECTION 79. LICENSE REQUIRED. No person, whether resident or not
of the City of Davao, shall operate, ride, or propel an animal-drawn carriage, on
any street, highway, alley, roadway, sidewalk, or upon any public path set aside
for the exclusive use of such carriages unless such has been licensed and a license
plate 5.0 cm x 7.5 cm (2 x 3) in size is attached thereto as provided herein. The
license is renewable every January of the following year.
SECTION 80. REGISTRATION. All animal-drawn carriages owned by
residents of the City of Davao shall be registered with the City Transport and Traffic
Management Office (CTTMO), through the Franchising and Regulatory Division
through the issuance of license plates and upon payment of authorized amount to
the City Treasurer's Office.
SECTION 81. ATTACHMENT OF LICENSE PLATE. The license plate
shall be firmly attached to the rear of the animal-drawn carriage or rear mudguard
or frame for which it is issued in such position as to be plainly visible from the rear.
SECTION 82. LIGHTING, WARNING SIGNS. An animal-drawn carriage
and bicycle operated at night shall be equipped with headlight visible at least 60
meters to the front and a rear red flex mirror or reflectorized tape visible for a
distance of 60 meters to the rear.
SECTION 83. OPERATING AN ANIMAL DRAWN CARRIAGE ON
PUBLIC ROADS.
SECTION 84. PENALTIES. Penalties shall be imposed upon the driver or
owner/operator of animal drawn carriage for the violations indicated hereunder:
i. No registration
ii. No plate number
iii. Not equipped with bell, horn
iv. No headlight
v. No red light to the rear
vi. No red reflector on its rear
vii. Carrying more persons than it is designed
and equipped
viii. With electronic device such as confiscation
of device car stereo, radio, and other devices
that creates public nuisance
PhP 100.00
PhP 100.00
PhP 100.00
PhP 100.00
PhP 100.00
PhP 100.00
PhP 100.00
PhP 100.00

Ord. No. 0782-2L
The apprehending City Traffic Enforcer shall have the authority to confiscate
the device to be deposited at CTTMO.
The device shall be claimed by the owner/driver/operator with seven (7)
working days upon payment of the corresponding fee of PhP 150.00, othenruise the
device shall be up for auction. The proceeds of the sale shall go to the General Fund.
SECTION 85. TRAFFIC LAWS APPLICABLE TO OPERATING AN
ANIMAL-DRAWN CARRIAGE. The provisions of this Code granting right to and
imposing duties upon a driver of a vehicle shall apply to every person riding an
animal-drawn carriage upon a road, except those provisions that by their very
nature are not applicable.
Afticle XV
Operation of Bicycles and Light Mobility Vehicles
SECTION 86. PROCESS OF REGISTRATION. Bicycle and light mobility
vehicle registration is mandatory for the purpose of orienting the birycle or light
mobility vehicle users of the applicable traffic rules and regulations and penalties in
case of violation.
Each registration is valid for one bike or light mobility vehicle and shall apply
for only one (1) year for commercial use and three (3) years for non-commercial
use.
In coordination with the CTTMO, the barangay where the bicycle or light
mobility vehicle user resides shall process the application and subsequent
registration. The barangay shall charge a fee of Twenty-five Pesos (P25.00) for each
bicycle or light mobility vehicle registration.
Upon registration, the bicycle or light mobility vehicle shall be brought to the
CTTMO's impoundment area and barangay hall to ensure that it has the necessary
minimum safety requirements required under this Code. Each registered user shall
be informed of the provisions of this Code and the relevant traffic rules that must
be followed.
SECTION 87. PROOF OF REGISTRATION. A water-proof sticker shall be
attached as proof that the bicycle or light mobility vehicle has already been
registered.
The barangay shall, on a quafterly basis forward the records of bicycles and
light mobility vehicles registered in their area to the CTTMO.
Within one year from the implementation of this Ordinance, all bicycle and
light mobility vehicle users must be registered in order to use the shared roadways
and signed shared roadways.
SECTION 88. MINIMUM SAFEW REQUIREMENTS. No bicycle or light
mobility vehicle user shall be allowed to use shared roadways or signed shared
roadways within the City of Davao without first complying with the following safety
requirements:
1. Helmets or protective headgear;
2. Reflectors or other warning lights;

Ord. No. 0782-21
3. Bell or horn;
4. Working brakes;
5. Rider capacity - bicycles or light mobility vehicles made for single
riders should not carry more than one passenger at a time; tricycles
or tandem bicycles shall be allowed only for the capacity for which it
is made;
6. Hands-free cargo - riders with cargo shall not carry the same with
their hands while operating the bike or light mobility vehicle, nor place
the same on their handlebars or along the wheelbase.
Cargo must be placed:
a. In a wearable backpack;
b. In a basket or carrier in front of the handlebars or behind
the seat;
c. On a trailer attached to the bicycle, provided it does not
exceed B0 cm in width;
7. When riding at night, a bicycle shall be equipped with additional
protective equipment such as, but not limited to, wearing of any
reflective material visible from both sides, use of additional blinkers,
lights or any other equipment that serves the same purpose, and is
not a hazard to other road users.
B. Audio or electronic devices which distract the cyclist or light mobility
vehicle user or which compromise safety are not allowed while
operating bicycles or light mobility vehicle. Hands-free audio devices
such as, but not limited to, earphones and earpiece can only be used
on one ear at a time.
SECTION 89. RTGHTS, DUTTES, AND OBLIGATIONS OF PERSONS
OPERATING A BICYCLE OR LIGHT MOBILITY VEHICLE. The following shall
be the rights, duties, and obligations of ryclists and light mobility vehicle users:
1. Every person riding a birycle or light mobility vehicle on the
designated bike lanes shall be granted all the rights of road users.
2. A cyclist or light mobility vehicle user may ride on any public road
or a street except on highways or where a sign specifically prohibiting
bikes has been posted such as an expressway.
3. As persons-on-wheels or bikes (POWs or POBs) who use a bicycle
or light mobility vehicle, cyclists and light mobility vehicle users have
optimal rights as pedestrians and share equal responsibility as
motorists on the road.
4. A ryclist or light mobility vehicle user shall exercise due care to avoid
colliding with any pedestrian, or any person operating a bicycle or
other device propelled by human or animal power or electric motor
assisted, upon any road.
5. Cyclists and light mobility vehicle users must always obserue the
use of the proper safety equipment laid down in SECTION 88 of this

Ord. No. 0782-21
other device propelled by human or animal power or electric motor
assisted, upon any road.
5. Cyclists and light mobility vehicle users must always obserue the
use of the proper safety equipment laid down in SECTION 88 of this
Code and SECTION 7 of the Amended Biking and Light Mobility Vehicle
Ordinance.
6. A trailer or semi-trailer may be attached to the bicycle provided it
does not exceed B0 cm in width.
7. Hand signal within 100 feet right- or left-hand turn signals shall be
given in not less than 100 feet from turn and/or while the bike is on
full stop. If the hand being used for signaling is needed to control the
bike, hand signaling may be undeftaken intermittently, instead of
continuously.
B. An audible signal shall be given before oveftaking.
9. Parking in designated areas. When bike parking is available, this
seruice must be maximized. Othenruise, a cyclist or light mobility
vehicle user may park his/her bicycle in any place that does not cause
obstruction to the mobility or safety of persons.
SECTION 90. OPERATING A BICYCLE OR LIGHT MOBILIW
VEHICLE. Every person operating a bicycle or light mobility vehicle upon a
designated bike lane shall utilize such lane direction except on reasonable
circumstances, exercising due care when passing a standing vehicle or a vehicle
proceeding in the same direction at the same time.
A. Prohibited Behaviors. The following are the restrictions imposed upon
cyclists and the right to use a bicycle:
1. No Overloading. No bicycle shall carry more persons or baggage that
is more than what the unit is designed to carry unless when another
regular seat or trailer is connected to it.
2. A cyclist must not carry anything on their hands while operating bicycle
unless it is in a basket, bag or trailer designed for that purpose.
3. A cyclist must not cling on to another vehicle while on the bike lane,
or on any other part of the road.
4. No hands-free cycling. At least one hand must always hold or be kept
on the handlebars at all times.
5. No biking on pedestrian lanes and sidewalks. Cyclists must unmount
and walk the bicycle unit in using the pedestrian lanes or sidewalks.
t
I
i

PageT of 10
Ord. No. 0782-2L
B. Ride together with the flow of traffic. Bikes are not allowed to counter
flow.
B. Duties and obligations to cyclists:
1. Pedestrians must keep their arms to themselves when standing on the
sidewalk. Extension of arms or legs pose hazards to cyclists using the
birycle lane.
2. Look out before disembarking. In getting on or off a private/public
vehicle at the pavement, pedestrians must look out first in case cyclist
or light mobility vehicle user is headed towards the direction of the
vehicle that the person is riding on/off from.
3. Pedestrians must give way to moving cyclists in
embarking/disembarki ng a vehicle.
4. Maintain safe distance and do not blow horn. Motorized vehicles,
especially heavy vehicles must maintain a safe distance from cyclists
using the bike lane. Blowing of horn must be done sparingly and not
within close range to the cyclist.
5. Safe distance at all times. All motorists, especially motorcycle riders
must keep a safe distance of at least 1.5 meters distance from cyclists
at all times. During inclement weather, motorists driving adjacent to
the bike lane or in cases of roads with no bike lane must slow down
to provide wiggle room and avoid splashing muddy water on cyclists.
SECTION 91. BICYCLE LANES, SHARED ROADWAYS, AND SIGNED
SHARED ROADWAYS.
The City Transport and Traffic Management Office (CTTMO) and the
Depaftment of Public Works and Highways (DPWH) shall designate the bicycle
lanes on shared roadways, provided that it allows a direct travel from the north to
the south of the City and vice versa, passing through the Central Business District.
Birycle lanes on signed shared roadways are for the exclusive use of
persons on bicycles, except those which may be exempted by this Code or the
Amended Bicycle and Light Mobility Vehicle Ordinance; Only City-operated buses
under the High Priority Bus System as well as medical, safety and security motor
vehicles may use a bicycle lane on a signed shared roadway.
The City Transport and Traffic Management Office (C[TMO) and the
Depaftment of Public Works and Highways (DPWH) shall designate the highways,
roads, and streets in the City that are to be considered as shared roadways which
are open to both bicycle and motor vehicle traffic.
Guidelines on the use of shared roadways shall be obserued by biryde
users, motorists, and pedestrians alike.

Ord. No. 0782-2L
The City Transport and Traffic Management Office (CTTMO) shall also
designate those roadways on which bicycle use must be prohibited.
SECTION 92. OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC LAWS AND DEVICES. Any
person operating a bicycle or light mobility vehicle shall obey the instructions of
officia! traffic control signs, and other control devices applicable to vehicles, unless
otherwise directed by a police officer or any authorized traffic enforcer. Whenever,
authorized signs are posted, a person operating a bicycle shall not disobey the
direction of such sign except when that person dismount from the bicycle, in which
case such person shall then obey the regulation applicable to pedestrians. No
person shall ride or operate a bicycle in any direction except that permitted for
vehicular traffic on the same side of the bike lane.
SECTION 93. FLAGGING BY A POLICE OFFICER OR CITY
TRANSPORT AND TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT OFFICE (CTTMO) PERSONNEL.
Any uniformed police officer or any deputized traffic enforcer may stop, inspect
and test a birycle unit that is suspected to be unsafe and fails to obserue the
Minimum Safety Requirements laid down in SECTION 88 of this Code and SECTION 7
of the Amended Bike and Light Mobility Vehicle Ordinance. He may also stop any
cyclist operating the bicycle in such a manner as to pose dangers to others.
SECTION 94. PROHIBITED ACTS AND PENALW CLAUSE. - Any
violation of the provisions of this Ordinance committed by bicycle users shall be
penalized by an administrative fine as follows, for each offense committed, without
prejudice to the prosecution of other administrative, criminal, or civil actions as
may be proper:
A. Non-registration
B. Failure to renew registration
C. No registration sticker
D. Incomplete compliance of minimum safety
Standard
E. Failure to follow traffic laws and other
offenses found under this Code
P100
P100
P100
P100
P100
SECTION 95. CITY TRAFFIC CITATION TICKET - A City Traffic
"CIIATION TICKET," shall be issued to VIOLATORS OF THIS CODE. The Citation
Ticket shall state the name and address of the violator, and the specific violation
committed. The City Transpoft and Traffic Management Office (CTTMO) personnel
and such other appropriate enforcers as may be commissioned by the City Mayor
shall have the power to apprehend violators of this Ordinance and issue citation
tickets.
If found to have violated the following, such as, but not limited to:
1. Bicycle involved in a traffic accident resulting to injuries of a pedestrian;
2. Unattended Bicycle;
3. Bicycle obstructing road right of way;
4. Illegally Parked Birycle; and
5. Other analogous cases.
The CTTMO or any authorized personnel shall cause the confiscation of
the bicycle unit and deliver it to the city impoundment area as paft of the
apprehension procedure.

ft'
Ord. No. 0782-21
SECTION 156. RESTRICTIONS ON PEDESTRIANS. A pedestrian shall
(0 In standing or occupying the sidewalk, extend an arm or leg or any other object
that may obstruct the passage of a cyclist/biker using the biking lane.
SECTION 157. PEDESTRIANS ON THOROUGHFARES. Except when
there is a sidewalk or footway, a pedestrian:
(c) In getting on or off a vehicle, a pedestrian must stop, look or listen for a
cyctist/biker who may be approaching, before opening the door.
SECTION 3. REPEALING CLAUSE - Any Ordinance, local issuances or rules
inconsistent with the provisions of this Ordinance are hereby repealed or modified,
accordingly.
SECTION 4. SEPARABILITY CLAUSE - If for any reason any SECTION of this
Ordinance is declared unconstitutional or invalid, other sections or provisions hereof which
are not affected thereby, shall continue to be in full force and effect.
SECTION 5. EFFECTMTY- This Ordinance shall take effect 15 days upon
approval, posting, and publication in a newspaper of local circulation.
ENACTED, on the 23'd day of November 202L, by a unanimous vote of all the
Members of the Sanggunian, there being a quorum.
CERTIFIED CORRECT:
,
not
ci#yfl[],].=fo,
Secretary to the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod
(City Government Depaftment Head Iff
ATTESTED:
7ft'rt
AEERIP T. UNGAB
/
City Councilor
Temporary Presiding Offi cer
cns/bern
tl

i
I
Ord. No. 0782-ZL
APPROVED
f6B 4, Lot'z'
FEB N I 2022
202L
SARA Z. DUTERTE
, city Mavor.'t/
I )
ATTESTED:
. ZULEIKA
Ad
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING ORDINANCE NO. 0334-12, SERIES OF 20L2, OTHERWISE KNOWN AS THE
"COMPREHENSIVE TRANSPORT AND TRAFFIC CODE OF DAVAO CITY" IN CONFORMITY WITH THE
AMENDED BICYCLE ORDINANCE OF DAVAO CITY"
a
i