FFICE OF THE CITY tv4AYOR
$
eipl;
Ref. t\lo. CAd+2019-00818
2Nd INDORSEMENT
March lL,?:0tg
rfiE:
Respectfttlly returned to Ms. Charito N. Santos, Secretary to the SANGGUNIANG
Paniungsoci, this Oty, the attached duly signecl and approved Ordinance No. 0602-18,
SeriCS of 2018, entitled ..AN ORDINANCE CREATING THE SPECIAL OFFICE FOR
CHILDRENS CONCERNS (SOCC) UNDER THE MAYORS OFFICE", for your information
and appropriate action.
For the Ciff Mayor:
ATTY. TRISTAN
Assistant
REI.EA
)
..t
Second Floor, City Hall Building, City Hall Drive, San Pedro St., Davao
(082) 224-3004 o (082) 241-1000 Ioc. 265 o davaocitymayor@gmail
1,H-ol'
BAW.@
CitV^
.com'
LIFE
IS HERE
(
l.
_1

D NGi
,3crs
- lDb
OFFICE OF THE CITY LEGAL OF
Tel. No. 298-6970
Trunk Line No. 241-1000 Loc 267 12251230
Ref. No. CLO-2019-000227
Legal Opinion No. -@
SERIES of 2019
ORDINANCE NO. 0602-18, SERIES OF 2018 entitled 'AN ORDINANCE
CREATING THE SPECIAL OFFICE FOR CHILDREN',S CONCERNS (SOCC)
UNDER THE CITY MAYOR'S OFFICE."
1't INDoRSEMENT
February 20,20L9
Respectfillly forwarded to the Office of the City Mayor, through the Office of
the Administrator, this City, the herein Ordinance No. 0602-18, SERIES of 2018,
informing your end that the passage of the subject ordinance is free from legal
infirmity, the same is in accord with SECTION 454 (c) (2) of RA 7160, otherwise
known as the Local Government Code of 1991, to quote:
"SECTION 455. Officials of the City Government-(a) )w(
(c) The SANGGUNIANG panlungsod may:
(1) Maintain exirting offices not mentioned in subsection (a)
and (b) hereof.
(2) Create such offices as may be necessary to carry out the
purpoft of the City Government."
Viewed therefrom, this office recommends the approval of the subject
ordinance subject to budgetary limitations on personal services and civil seruice
rules and regulations.
ATTY.
A. GALLO, RSW
Acting Asst.
Legal Offtcer
Approved by:
CAL
l,,ll/_
,t
ATTY. OSM
P. ULLANUEVA,, JR
OIC-Acting City Legal Officer
Date Approved: February 22,20L9
orf,\fr 2- 1 |-src + ft .ttin n- 20 I 9{00 2 t 7 _2- 2 I - 1 9
@f,ee
oFF I c E o t
8,TF r.lff&?ilr
N I srRAtoR
RECEIVED BY
DAVAO
DATEI
TIME:
'J
oFnsr*ffi$ff
mYIs
t):q
D
EFE
MARY
QITY /t*lo"-
e{-rD-",
I
rf
ts\q
\
fl:HIE:

v
Re-lublL of the Philippines
FeL'ruay 1]., ?0tB
STRT I. SUIERIE
r-ity $4ayor
ility of Dwm
Hla,-larrr:
*
o
Fursumt to Suh+edictt 3,
-uM-wo12l P.J[,.
r_ . EeiUciri ai_,u,'Ai+.-rri* iJtir, Titi+ Fii,'e,
fhalrter 3, Ermk Itr anJ ktian 54 of Baok I Repuhlic Act trlo' 718'0' oftenaise known
as thre Lor-*i Government f-ode of t*1L, uE are furnishing TT,U a coE'Y of Resoluticut Itlo'
B?sgr-lE md orrJrnance N*, o6s?-1s, LoLh SERIES *f z01B *t iiie SanrSguniang
panlungrr,i, , for y*ur infonn*tion, guid*n.-e a*d apFrot'riate ac|i*tr.
Very huly 1$uts,
nW*Lfol-,*
5ecretary to the Sarg'=runihng Pallunlsod
{fity fiovernntent tEgrartment Ftsa'-J II}
MARY
ALVARADO
RECORDS
&
CORRE5PONDENCE
D
I
E
V
G
tr
R
FEB 14 2019
{
N.G\
(1r
\

NC
CIS
18tl' City Council
44h Regular Session
SERIES of 2018
PRESEilT:
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Jimmy G. Dureza
Nilo M. Abellera Jr.
Maria Belen S. Acosta
Victorio U. Advincula Jr.
Al Ryan S. Alejandre
Dante L. Apostol Sr.
Conrado C. Baluran
Ma. Cherry Ann M. Bonguyan
Pilar C. Braga
Carmelo J. Clarion
Danilo C. Dayanghirang
April Marie C. Dayap
Jimmy G. Dureza
Edgar P. Ibuyan Jr.
Edgar R. Ibuyan Sr.
Leah A. Librado-Yap
Jaffar U. Marohomsalic
Bonifacio E. Militar
Antoinette G. Principe-Castrodes
J. Melchor B. Quitain Jr.
Marissa P. Salvador-Abella
Halila Y. Sudagar
Jesus Joseph P. Zozobrado
Bernard E. Al-ag
Joanne M. Bonguyan-Quilos
Rene Elias C. Lopez
Diosdado Angelo A. Mahipus
Avegayle Dalodo Ortiz
Mary Joselle D. Villafuefte
Temporary Presiding Officer
OB - Acting City Mayor
On Vacation Leave
On Domestic Emergency Leave
On Vacation Leave
On Vacation Leave
OB - Attended the 4h Sino Asia
Pacific Medical Forum at
The Roya! Mandaya Hotel
ABSENT:
Vice Mayor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
C.ouncilor
ORDINANCE NO. 0602-18
SERIES of 2018
AN ORDINANCE CREATING THE SPECIAL OFFICE FOR
cHILDREil',S CONCERNS (SOCC) UI{DER THE CrrY
MAYORS OFFICE

Ord. No.0602-18
Be it ordained by the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod of Davao City in session assembled, that:
SECTION 1. IIITE - This Ordinance shall be known as "AN ORDII{ANCE CREATING
T}IE SPECIAT OFFICE FIOR CHILDRENS CONCERNS (SOCC) UNDER THE CITY MAYORS
OFFICE'.
SECTION 2. DECLARATION OF POLICY - For purposes of the implementation of
Ordinance No. 0292-06, SERIES of 2006, entitled "Comprehensive Children and Family Suppoft
System in Davao City, as Amended," the Special Office for Children's Concems (SOCC) shall be
created to beef up the capacity of all implementing agencies in realizing the provision of the
Ordinance. It shall be the special coordinating and implementing arm of the Local Government
of Davao City Local Council for the Protection of Children's (LCPC) functions to focus on
children specific programs and projects distinct ftom the direct seruice function of the Davao
City's social welfare arm, the City Social Seruices and Development Office (CSSDO). In
addition, SOCC shall serve as the secretariat of the Local Council fur the Protection of Children.
SECTION 3. FUNCTIONS OF THE SPECIAL OFFICE FOR CHITDREN'S
col{cERils -
a) The line function office shall be created by the Local Government of Davao City
responsible for the implementation of this Ordinance with regulatory, executory,
coordinative, monitoring, and evaluative functions.
b) Ensure, uphold, promote and fulfill the four fundamenta! rights of children namely;
survival, protection, development and participation through plans, programs and poliry
making.
c) Coordinate with networks of organizations, both GOs and CSOs, in the preparation and
assessment as well as updating of Davao City Development Plan for Children to ensure
its implementation at al! levels through meetings, wod<shops and consultations.
d) Establish and manage a database on children in Davao City.
e) Formulate or recommend mechanisms, standards, and guidelines in public or private
entities to ensure the effective implementation of the objectives of the LCPC and other
laws involving children.
0 Oversee and assess policies and programs of public and private entities whether there is
faithfu! compliance of the DCCWC and other laws and ordinances involving children and
coordination with various organizations towards improving its implementation and
effectivity.
-V
A' REGULATORY
1.1 Ensure the implementation of standards and guidelines for all children and
development mechanisms instituted by all establishments, local government agencies
and instrumentalities, such ds, but not limited to, the Depaftment of Education,
Philippine National Police, Depailrnent of Social Welfare and Development, Depaftnent
of Health, and the Local Barangays, for effective implementation of the Barangay
Council for the Protection of Children (BCPCS) programs/projects including proper
coordination and effective referral system.
t.2 Review existing policies and guidelines in terms of adherence to the local
children's welfare code.
1.3 Act on complaints involving alleged violations against children by an
implementing agency.
B. COORDTNATTNG, MONTTORTNG AND EVALUATTON
1.1 Formulate, review, update, and consolidate tools for the monitoring and
evaluation of the performance of implementing agencies pertinent to children's
concerns.
1.2 Monitor and evaluate existing policies and programs of barangays, departments,
and government offices in terms of its implementation and effectivity.

Ord.'No.0602-18
1.3 Collect performance repoft of all implementing agencies concerning childrenrelated programs.
1.4 Design and implement orientations and interactive activities to strengthen the
child protection mechanisms of the City and the implementation of the Ordinance to
ensure the mainstreaming of its programs and policies for the children.
SECTION 4. FUNCTIONAL CHART
SECTION 5. SOCC ORGANIZATIONAT STRUCTURE
Ofrice of the CiW MaYor
Shall be the special coordinating and implementing arm
of the Local Government of Davao City Local Council for
the Protection of Children (LCPC) functions b focus on
specific programs and projects on children. In addition,
SOCC shall serve as the secretariat of the Local Council
for the Protection of Children.
socc
COORDINATIilG, IIIONITORIIIG AND
EVALUATION
Shall oversee and assess policies and prcgrams of
public and private entities whether there is faithful
compliance of the Children's Welfare Code and other
laws and ordinances involving children and
coordinate with various organizations towards
improving ib implementation and effectivity.
Shall be responsible in formulaUng or
recommending mechanisms, standards, and
guidelines in public or private entities to ensure
the effective implementaUon of the objectives of
the Children's Welfare Code and other laws
involving children.
REGUI-ATORY
DMO IV
DMO III
CoordinaUng, Monitoring &
EvaluaUon Sction
Regulatory SECTION
SECTION Chief (DMO II)
SECTION Assistant (DMO I)
SECTION Chief (DMO II)
SECTION Assistant (DMO I)
Administrative Aide IV (Clerk II)
Administrative Aide IV (Clerk II)

SECTION 6. STAFFING PATTERN
Number Position
Ord. No. 0602-18
SG.22
SG.18
SG.15
SG.11
SG4
Development Management Officer (DMO) IV
Development Management Officer (DMO) III
Development Management officer (DMO) II
Development Management Officer (DMO) I
Administrative Aide (Clerk II)
Total Positions
SECTION 7. JOB DESCRIPTION OF POSITIONS AND FUNCTIONS
Development Management officer IV (SOCC HEAD)
1. Oversee the overall operation of the Special Office for Children's Concerns.
2. Represent SOCC in other Bodies during meetings and consultations which involve
children's welfare.
3. Formulate and submit the annual operation plan, Local Development Investrnent
Program (LDIP) and the Local State of Children's report of SOCC to LCPC for approva!.
4. Document best practices for possible policy formulation and adoption of LCPC for the
implementation of DCCWC and other programs related to children.
5. Provide regular updates to LCPC regarding laws, policies, and programs for children.
6. Ensure the execution and implementation of plans as approved by LCPC.
7. Ensure that the Local Development Plan for Children is reviewed and assessed by LCPC
annually.
8. Act as the offtcial spokespercon of Davao City regarding issues involving children.
9. Consolidate and submit program reports on programs for children every quafter or as
may be deemed necessary.
lO.Coordinate with the national and local department heads and/or offices towards
effective implementation of the ordinances and other related programs for, by, and with
the children.
ll.Ensure effective implementation of children's programs of the City by strengthening
collaboration among BCPCs in Barangay levels and other mechanisms.
12. Perform such other functions as may be directed by LCPC and/or the City Mayor.
Development Management Officer III
1. Collaborate with Non-Government Organizations, Faith-based Organizations and other
Civil Society Organizations for feedbacks and recommendations on maximizing
resources for children's plans and programs.
2. Ensure the creation and management of the data bank on the situation and status of
children in Davao City.
3. Monitor the pefformance of all implementing offices and seryices in line with DCCWC.
4. Shall be in charge in the codification of all laws relating to children.
5. Shall serue as custodian of all files, minutes, communications and other papers relating
to SOCC.
6. Assist in the execution and implementation of the plan as approved by LCPC.
7. Assist in ensuring that the Local Development Plan for Children is reviewed and
approved by LCPC.
8. Assist in reviewing the City Development Plan, LDIPC and the Local State of Children's
report of SOCC to LCPC for approval.

Ord. No.0502-18
9. Assist in overseeing the overall operation of SOCC.
10.Assist in ensuring the execution and implementation of plans as agreed with LCPC.
11. Shall keep a directory of all concerned agencies involved or which may be involved in
the protection and promotion of the welfare and development of the children.
12. Ensure the functionality of BCPC in collaboration with the Departrnent of the Interior
and Local Government (DILG).
13.Pefform other functions as may be directed from time to time by the immediate
superuisor and/or the DMO IV.
Development Management officer II (Coodinating, Monitoring and
Evaluation SECTION)
1. Conduct biannual review on programs and implementations including, but not limited
to, the programs of SOCC and other offices in line with DCCWC.
2. Recommend to LCPC and other departments and offices for advocacy works and
utilization of the research results.
3. Initiate consultations with CSOs, barangays, and other concerned agencies for
feedbacks and assessments peftaining to protocols and standards on handling cases
and issues involving children.
4. Prepare accomplishment reports in all activities undeftaken by the Coordinating,
Monitoring and Evaluation SECTION as well as other monitoring and evaluation repofts to
be submitted to the immediate superuisor for review and recommendation.
5. Perform other functions as may be directed from time to time by the immediate
superuisor.
Development Management Officer I (Coordinating, Monibring and
Evaluation SECTION)
1. Assist in the identification, transpoftation and interpretation of data essential to
execution of the operation plan, and other office development by way of team coaching
approach and by data collation and tabulation.
2. Assist in monitoring and evaluating programs and policies in offices in line with
children's concerns and in preparing the biannual review.
3. Assist in preparing accomplishment repofts in all activities undeftaken by SOCC and in
monitoring and evaluating reports.
4. Follow up administrative requirements of the activities, p@ects and program
advocacies of SOCC through the establishment of linkages and facilitation of documents
to ensure the necessary support seruices are met.
5. Perform staff functions and other related duties that may, from time to time be
assigned by the superiors.
1. Prepare draft mechanisms and appropriate interuention models which attend to the
social context of children's specific problems and needs pafticularly involving situations
of violence or abuse for the guidance of all children-centered programs and seruices
whether government or private through preparation of project proposal/design to be
submitted to the DMO IV.
2. Design and draft proposals of mechanisms and appropriate interuention models
attending to the social context of children specific problems and needs specifically in
situations of discrimination, abuse and exploitation for the guidance of all children
centered programs and seruices whether government or private establishments or
agencies.
3. Submit consolidated repofts, findings and feedbacks on changes and enhancement in
policies, strategies and programs.
4. Peform such other functions as may be directed from Ume to time by the immediate
supervisor.
Development Management Officer II (Regulatory SECTION)

Ord. No. 0602-18
Development Management officer I (Regulatory SECTION)
t. Assist in formulating standards and guidelines for all children and development
mechanisms instituted by all establishments and loca! government agencies and
instrumentalities for effective implementation of programs including proper coordination
and effective referral system.
2. Assist in designing and drafting proposals of mechanisms and appropriate interuention
models attending to the social context of children's specific problems and needs
specifically in situations of discrimination, abuse and exploitation for the guidance of all
children centered programs and seruices whether government or private establishments
or agencies.
3. Prepare the documentation repoft in the conduct of policy studies and on existing
proposed and appropriate action of concerned parties as well as during committee
hearing.
4. Perform staff functions and other related duties that may, from time to time be
assigned by superiors.
Administrative Aide IV (Clerk II)
1. Prepare and draft office correspondence, memoranda, and minutes of meetings, pCIect
designs, report payrolls and do other typing works.
2. File records according to office procedures.
3. Perform other jobs that may be assigned by the superior.
SECTIOI{ 8. OUALIFICATION - A person who will be appointed in the career
seruice of the Special ffice for Children's Concerns (SOCC) should meet the qualification
standards as approved by the Civll Service Commission.
In determining the relevance of education and experience requirement, reftrence shall
be made to the duties and responsibilities attached to the positions and the occupational
groupings including experience in children's work and should be a child righfs advocate.
Fufthermore, selection of employees br appointment in this newly created division shall
be open to all qualified men and women according to the principle of merit and fitness. There
shall be no discrimination in the selection of employees on account of gender, civil status,
disability, religion, ethnicity, or political affiliation.
SECTION 9. BUDGET - Sufficient funds shall be allocated for the creation of the
Special Office for Children's Concerns (SOCC) under the City Mayo/s Office and for the eight
(8) positions under it.
SECTION 10. SEPARABILITY CLAUSE - If, for any reason, any SECTION or
provision of this Ordinance is held unconstitutional or invalid, the other sections or provisions
hereof shall not be affected thereby.
SECTION 11. EFFECTMY CLAUSE fiis Ordinance shall take effect
immediately after fifteen (15) days from the date of its complete publication in a newspaper of
local circulation or in the absence thereof, the posting of this Ordinance in at least three (3)
conspicuous places in the City of Davao.
ENACTED, on the 27th day of November, 2018, by a majority vote of all the
Members of the Sanggunian, there being a quorum.

t'
a
G.
City Councilor
Temporary Presiding Officer
ncm/ror
t
1l
PageT of 7
Ord. No. 0602-18
CERTIFIED CORRECT:
For and in the absence of the Secretary:
NILDA C.
Acting Secretary to the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod
(Assistant Secretary to the SANGGUNIANG Panluntfg)
AppRovED 2Z FrB 20lg,2or8
z.
C,ty M^yil
ATTESTED:
ATTESTED:
City