x dE48J-**
{affi
.
OFFICE OF THE CITY MAYOR
saciiltG
Ref. No. CAdG2019OO935
Respectfully returned to Ms. charito N. Santos, Secretary to the SANGGUNIANG
Panlugsod, this City, the attached duly signeo ano ipproved ordinance No. 0532-1g,
SERIES of 2018 entitled "AN ORDINANCI STRENGTHENING, IMpLEMENTING AND
ENFORCING REPUBLIC ACT NO. 9208, AS AMENDCO NIVO EXPANDED BY REPUBLIC ACT
NO. 10364, OTHERWISE KNOWN AS THE "EXPANDED ANTI.TRAFFICKING IN PERSONS
ACT OF 20L2" AND PROVIDING FOR PENALTIES THEREOF AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES"
for your information and appropriate action.
For the City Mayor:
2nd Indorsement
April 5, 2019
ATTY.
Assistant
DOMINGO
(Admi
)
S4a- 3 -l? ^l
APR 0u 2019
@
RECORDS DIV
RE
ED
ror& GAlIO
AIOE M
(082) 224-3004 r (082) 241-1000 toc.265 . d
yor@gmail.com
LIfE
IS }IERE
Second Floor, City Hall Building, City Hall Drive, Sa
St., Davao City
BAW",@

Lrr'
OFFICE OF THE CITY LEGAL O
Tel. No.298-6970
Trunk Line No. 241-1000 Loc267|2ZSP3A
C0RRESpilNni:h!Cf
[affi
sl[[-*!
Legal Opinion No.
SERIES of 2019
DIVISION
o
Ref. No. CLO-2019-000416
Approved by
ATTY. OSMU
P. VILIANUEVA, JR.
OIC-Acting City Legal Officer
Date Approved: March 6,20t9
od\ 5 3 2 - 1 8 -am enfed-tldjf1c Qinq-z 0 I 9 40M I 6 -i 4 - 1 9
@f,ee
W
/'/i'
ORDINANCE NO. 0532.18, SERIES OF 2018 entitled ,AN ORDINANCE
STRENGTHENING, IMPLEMENTING AND ENFORCING REPUBLIC ACT
NO. 9208, AS AMENDED AND EXPANDED BY REPUBUC ACT NO,
10364, OTHERWISE KNOWN AS THE *EXPANDED ANTI-TRAFFICKING
IN PERSONS ACT OF 20L2" AND PROVIDING FOR PENALTIES
THEREOF AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES."
1o INDoRSEMENT
March 4,20L9
Respectfrrlly forwarded to the Office of the City Mayor, through the Office of the
Administrator, this City, the herein Ordinance No. 0532-18, SERIES of 2018, informing
your end that this office finds no legal infirmity in the passage of the subject ordinance,
the same is well within the powers of the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod.
Viewed therefrom, this office recommends the approval of the ordinance.
ATTY.
A. GALLO, RSW
Acting Asst. City Legal Officer
(:;}4\I. o
oFFtcE 0FIL|F 0mf q0!,M|N!STRATOR
CITY i"irri. i. :-:i:i:ricE
Irfio5 0f T!f; SITY
grv H.,qil..
RECEIVED BY
OfiUtr}
iH.IiTfrTB BT
DATE:
TIME:
/e.t4"-.,
b".3)
(t -tl+x

*t'3;'+i,"5$t'"T['dines
L--1}-rrl t:11-{I -J ,'
-! I I i LJ
; !_.L' i ii.-* i LiF
L:i3
6u,slq- hb
SEHT E. I}IJTEETE
ilitf f{*Y,.-r-
'..!l_T ul Ljrff'{|rj
A
k'i
D
*
F4adarr:
Drt
t$
*
tEu.srt t* Siti:r**rfir-:n I, F-.+rugraph il, 5+rtir-:* nk*
ht-o.Atq -0u4hftsb
{ri*. Tiil* Fit*
Clglrtsr ::, tt**k tril *nJ 5+:t-i*rr 54 *f E*:k i E*pruHlr $.ct lii*. 71"*rL, ';*rerw:re k"nt:wr'
;s tt-r* Lrr-ai fi*s*nifir*l-rt tlryje *f i.'l'-;l, ri$e aJe illrrrishirrg Y-*tt a r*pY ',:i R.s*lLttion f'lt::"
i!2482-1* anii *rr:iria*re f{*, $53?-18}, Lrrlh SERIES cf 20rE *f the L+rg:gi;nianl
Farrlurigs*do ff.tis Ciff, ts'r y*ur infi-rrrr':atict'i, gui'iatrc* snd 4.,ttrnpriat* acti*n.
'+ery truly YClilrE
'-'F;r;rrr-J in ti:e ;hle*,:* r,t tiie :le{r*HrT"
.&l-i n r: I;*r-retaiy trr
ilx1r=rvisirrg
r'?
*-fl E-'E:-E,E
-a
*r!
! Ea-EE
!
e ".a=ntli]il n !;tn g Fxrr I un *l s.:j
Ail rr,ri n isfuativs f,i ffi r*ri
CORRESPONDENCE &
ol\a
D
RE CEIV
M'I.RY At,N Ct.
FEB 28 20tg
rl
Ft-:,
Ilr

EDGE DA\TAO
Door 14 ATcrej B)dg. Quirino Ave
A newspaper of generaf circul-ation
in the province and the City of Davao
REPT'BLIC OF THE PHILIPPTNES)
................) S. S
AFFIDAVIT OF PI'BLICATION
I, OLfli.IjA. D. VELASCO , of lega1 a9e, Filipino,
office address of Door !4 Alcrej BIdg. Quirino Ave.,
DO IIEREBY DEPOSE A}.ID SAY:
with
Davao
postCity,
That I am the President of Edge Davao, a newspaper of
qeneral circul-ation published in the City of
Davao and the rest
of Mindanao.
That in the Edge Davao
issues of JuLY 8, 9 & 10, 2OL9
was published an
"Ordinance No. 0532-18, SERIES of 20t9u,
otherwise known as AII ORDINAIICE STRENGTHENING, IMPLE}IIENTING AIID
ENFORCTNG REPITBLTC ACT NO. 9208, AS AMEIIDED Ar{D EXPA}IDED By
REPTBLIC ACr NO. 10364, OIHERIESE KNOI{N AS IHE .EXPA}iIDED e}rTITRJAT'FICKING IN PERSONS ACT OF 2OL2' AND PROVIDING EOR PEIiTALITIES
THEREOF AIiID FOR OTITER PURPOSES,,, ctippings of which hereto are
attached.
That this affidavit of publication is made upon the request
of the OFETCE OF TIIE SA}iIGGT,NIA}IG PA}ItT,NGSOD, CITY OF DA\TAO, in
compliance with the requirement of the law.
ET'RTHER AFEIAI{T SAYETH NOT.
D. VEI,ASCO
President
r A ,,,FI{llffiIBED A}rID SWORN ro before me this
day of
K,inDavaoCity,Phi1ippines,affiantexhibiting
her SSS nurnber 09-0602167-5 issued in Davao City, PhiJ.ippines.
,?.h ;
--67,
LxL
Doc. No
Page No.
Book No.
I
SERIES or-1oTfl.
tl
12/17 t18

18th City Council
32nd Regular Session
SERIES of 2018
PRESENT:
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Counciloi'
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
ABSENT:
Jimmy G. Dureza
Nilo M. Abellera Jr.
Maria Belen S. Acosta
Victorio U. Advincula Jr.
Al Ryan S. Alejandre
Dante L. Apostol Sr.
Conrado C. Baluran
Joanne M. Bonguyan-Quilos
Ma. Cherry Ann M. Bonguyan
Pilar C. Braga
Carmelo C. Clarion
Danilo C. Dayanghirang
April Marie C. Dayap
Edgar P. Ibuyan Jr.
Rene Elias C. Lopez
Diosdado Angelo A. Mahipus
Jaffar U. Marohomsalic
Avegayle Dalodo Ortiz
Antoinette G. Principe-Castrodes
J, Melchor B. Quitain Jr.
Halila Y. Sudagar
Mary Joselle D. Villafuerte
Jesus Joseph P.Zozobrado III
- Temporary Presiding Officer
- On Vacation Leave
- OB- Attended the Liga ng mga Barangay
sa Pilipinas National Convention
- On Sick Leave
- On Vacation Leave
- On Vacation Leave
Vice Mayor Bernard E. Al-Ag
Councilor Edgar R. Ibuyan Sr.
Leah A. Librado-Yap
Bonifacio E. Militar
Marissa P. Salvador-Abella
ORDINANCE NO.0532.18
SERIES of 2018
AN ORDINANCE STRENGTHENING, IMPTEMENTING
AND ENFORCING REPUBLIC ACT NO. 9208, AS
AMENDED AND EXPANDED BY REPUBLIC ACT NO.
1036+ OTHERWISE KNOWN AS THE *EXPANDED
ANTI-TRAFFICKING IN PERSONS ACT OF 2O,.,2' AND
PROVIDING FOR PENALTIES THEREOF AND FOR
OTHER PURPOSES
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor

SECTION 1. TITLE - This Ordinance shall be known as "AN ORDINANCE
STRENGTHENTNG, TMPLENTTNG AND ENFORCTNG REPUBLTC ACT NO. 9208, AS
AMENDED BY REPUBLIC ACT NO. 10364, OTHERWISE KNOWN AS THE
*EXPANDED ANTI.TRAFFICKING IN PERSONS ACT OF 2OT2'AND PROVIDING
PENALTIES THEREOF AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES;
SECTION 2. STATEMENT OF POLICIES AND PRINCIPLES - In light of the
declaration of the state in valuing the dignity of every human person and guarantees the
full respect of individua! rights, the Local Government of Davao City shall gi-ve the highest
priority to the enactment of measures and the development of programs that will pro-mote
human dignity and protect the people from any threats of violence and exploitation.
The City Government of Davao likewise recognizes its vita! role in addressing the
problem of trafficking in persons, especially women and children, at the local tevit Uy
helping institute the- policies and programs mandated by law to prevent, protect and
rehabilitate victims of trafficking.
It is also the policy of the City of Davao to take a firmer stance against trafficking in
persons by strictly penalizing the acts or omissions specified undeithe law. for lhis
reason, the City Government of Davao is hereby invoking the principle of locat autonomy
embodied in Artlcle X of 1987 Constitution and the plenary police power of local
government expressed in SECTION 16 (General Welfare Clause) of the Local Government
Code, in relation to SECTION 16 (i) of R.A. 9208 (SECTION 16 (k), as amended and
expanded by R.A. 10364), which explicitly mandates LGUs to monitor and document
trafficking cases and SECTION 19 of its Implementation Rules and Regulations, which
clearly directs LGUs to "enact ordinances or issuances aimed at providini protection and
suppoft to trafficked persons and adopt measures to prevent and suppress trafficking in
persons.
SECTION 3. DEFINITION OF TERMS.
As used in this Ordinance, the following shall mean:
(a) Trafficking in Persons - refers to the recruitment, obtaining, hiring, providing,
offering, transpoftation, transfer, maintaining, harboring or receipt of persons with or
without the victim's consent or knowledge, within or across national borders by means of
threat, or use of force, or other forms of coercion, abduction, fraud, deception, abuse of
power or of position, taking advantage of the vulnerability of the person, or, the giving or
receiving of payments or benefits to achieve the consent of a person having conlrol Jver
another person for the purpose of exploitation which includes at a minimum, the
exploitation or the prostitution of others or other forms of sexual exploitation, forced labor
or seruices, slavery, servitude or the removal or sale of organs.
The recruitment, transportation, transfer, harboring, adoption or receipt of a child
for the purpose of exploitation or when the adoption is induced by any form of
consideration for exploitation purposes shall also be considered as'trafficking in persons,
even if it does not involve any of the means set forth in the preceding paragriph.
'
(b) Child - refers to a person below eighteen (18) years of age or one who is
eighteen (18) or over eighteen (18) years of age but is unable to fully take care of or
protect himself/herself from abuse, neglect, cruelty, exploitation or discrimination
because of physical or mental disability or condition.
page Z of 16
Ord. No. 0532-18
Be it ordained by the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod of Davao C1y in session
assembled, that:

Ord. No. 0532-18
(c) Prostitution - refers to any act, transaction, scheme or design invotving the
use of a person by another, for sexual intercourse or lascivious conduct-in exchang-" fot
money, profit or any other consideration.
(d) Forced Labor - refers to the extraction of work or seryices from any person by
means of enticement, violence, intimidation or threat, use of force or coercion,'including
deprivation of freedom, abuse of authority or moral ascendancy, dept-bondug. oi
deception including any work or seruice extracted from any person under the menice of
penalty.
(e) Slavery - refers to the status or condition of a person over whom any or all of
the powers attached to the right of ownership are exercised.
(f) Involuntary Seruitude - refers to a condition of enforced and compulsory
seruice induced by means of any scheme, plan or pattern, intended to cause a person to
believe that if he or she did not enter into or continue in such condition, he or she or
another person would suffer serious harm or other forms of abuse or physical restraint, or
threat of abuse or harm, or coercion including depriving access to travel documents and
withholding salaries, or the abuse or threatened abuse oi the legal process.
(g) Sex Tourism - refers to a program organized by travel and tourism-related
establishments and individuals which consist of tourism packages or activities, utilizing
and offering escoft and sexual services as enticement for touriits. This includes sexua-l
seruices and practices offered during rest and recreation periods for members of the
military.
(h) Sexual Exploitation - refers to the pafticipation by a person in prostitution,
pornography or the production of pornography, in exchange for money, profit or any
other consideration or where the participation is caused or facilitated by any means of
intimidation or threat, use of force, or other form of coercion, abduction, fraud,
deception, debt bondage, abuse of power or of position or of legal process, t.king
advantage of the vulnerability of the person, or giving or receiving of payments oi
benefits to achieve the consent of a person having control orer. anolher person; or in
sexual intercourse or lascivious conduct caused or facilitated by any means as provided in
this Act.
(i) Debt Bandage - refers to the pledging by the debtor of his/her personal
seryices or labor or those of a person under his/her control as security or payment for
debt, when the length and nature of seruices is not clearly defined or when the value of
the services as reasonable assessed is not applied toward the liquidation of the debt.
(j) Pornography - refers to any representation, through publication, exhibition,
cinematography, indecent shows, information technology, or by whatever means, of a
person engaged in real or simulated explicit sexual activ'i[ies or any representation of the
sexual pafts of a person for primarily sexual purposes.
(k) Council - shall mean the Inter-Agency Council Against Trafficking - Davao City
(IACAT-DC) created under SECTION 20 of R.A. 9208 as amLnded and expinded by R.A.
10364.
(l) Local Task Force - refers to the Local Joint Task Force Against Trafficking in
Persons (LITFATP) created under SECTION 13 of this ordinance.
I

Ord. No. 0532-18
SECTION 4. AS PROVIDED UNDER REPUBLIC ACT NO. 9208. THE
FOLLOWING ACTS ARE CONSTDERED UNLAWFUL, AS m
ORDINANCE
(A) The following shal! be considered as *Acts of Trafficking in persons,,:
a) To recruit, obtain, hire, provide, offer, transport transfer, maintain,
harbor, or receive a person by any means, incruding those done under
the pretext of domestic or overseas emproyment or training or
apprenticeship, for the purpose of prostitution, pornography or sexual
exploitation;
b) To introduce or match for money, profit, or material, economic or
other consideration, any person or, as provided for under Republic Act
No. 6955, any Filipino woman to a foreign nationar, for marriage for
the purpose of acquiring buying, offering, selling or trading him/her to
engage in prostitution, pornography, sexual exploitation, forced labor,
slavery, involuntary seruitude or debt bondage;
c) To offer or contract marriage, real or simulated, for the purpose of
acquiring, buying, offering, selling or trading them to engage in
prostitution, pornography, sexual exploitation, forced labor or slavery,
involuntary servitude or debt bondage;
d) To undertake or organize tours and travel plans consisting of tourism
packages or activities for the purpose of utilizing and offering persons
for prostitution, pornography or sexual exploitation;
e) To maintain or hire a person to engage in prostitution or pornography;
0 To adopt persons by any form of consideration for exploitative
purposes or to facilitate the same for purposes of prostitution,
pornography, sexual exploitation, forced labor, slavery, involuntary
seruitude or debt bondage;
g) To adopt or facilitate the adoption of persons for the purpose of
prostitution, pornography, sexual exploitation, forced labor, slavery,
involuntary seruitude or debt bondage;
h) To recruit, hire, adopt, transport, transfer, obtain, harbor, maintain,
provide, offer, receive or abduct a person, by means of threat or use
of force, fraud, deceit, violence, coercion, or intimidation for the
purpose of removal or sale of organs of said person;
i) To recruit, transpoft, obtain, transfer, harbor, maintain, offer, hire,
provide, receive or adopt a child to engage in armed activities in the
Philippines or abroad;
j) To recruit, transport, transfer, harbor, obtain, maintain, offer, hire,
provide or receive a person by means defined in SECTION 3 of this Act
for purposes of forced labor, slavery, debt bondage and involuntary
seruitude, including a scheme, plan, or pattern intended to cause the
person either:
(1) To believe that if the person did not peform such labor or
seruices, he or she or another person would suffer serious harm or
physical restraint; or

Ord. No. 0532-18
(2) To abuse or threaten the use of law or the legar processes; and
k) To recruit, transport, harbor, obtain, transfer, maintain, hire, offer,
provide, adopt or receive a child for purposes of exploitation or trading
tfem including, but not limited to, the act of baring and/or selling i
child for any consideration or bafter for purposes of exploitation.
Trafficking for purposes of exploitation of chirdren shall include:
(1) All forms of slavery or practices similar to sravery, involuntary
seruitude, debt bondage and forced labor, including recruitment of
children for use in armed conflict;
(2) The use, procuring or offering of a child for prostitution, for the
production of pornography, or for pornographic performances;
(3) The use, procuring or offering of a child for the production and
trafficking of drugs; and
(4) The use, procuring or offering of a child for illegal activities or
work which, by its nature or the circumstances in which it is
carried out, is likely to harm their health, safety or morals; and
(l) To organize or direct other persons to commit the offenses defined as
acts of trafficking under this Act."
(B) Attempted Trafficking in Persons - Where there are acts to initiate the
commission of a trafficking offence but the offender failed to or did not execute alt
the elements of the crime, by accident or by reason of some cause other than
voluntary desistance. Such overt acts shall be deemed as an attempt to commit an
act of trafficking in persons. As such, an attempt to commit any of the offenses
enumerated in SECTION 4 of this Act shall constitute attempted trafficking in persons.
In cases where the victim is a child, any of the following acts shall atso be deemed
as attempted trafficking in persons:
a) Facilitated the travel of a child who travels alone to a foreign country
or territory without valid reason therefor and without the required
clearance or permit from the Department of social welfare and
Development (DSWD), or s written permit or justification from the
child's parent or legal guardian;
b) Executing, for a consideration, an Affidavit of consent or a written
consent for adoption;
c) Recruiting a woman to bear a child for the purpose of selling the
child;
d) Simulating a birth for the purpose of selling the child; and
e) soliciting a child and acquiring the custody thereof through any means
from among hospitals, clinics, nurseries, daycare centers, refugee or
evacuation centers and low-income families, for the purpose of selling
the child."

Ord. No. 0532-18
(C) Accomplice Liability - Whoever knowingly aids, abets, cooperates in the
execution of the offense by previous or simultaneous acts defined in this Act shall be
punished in accordance with the provision of SECTION 10 (c) of this Act.,,
(D) Accessories - Whoever has the knowledge of the Commission of the crime,
and without having participated herein, either ls principal or as u..orpii..s, take
part in its commission in any of the following manners:
(a) By profiting themselves or assisting the offender to profit by the effects of
the crime;
(b) By concealing or destroying the body of the crime or effects or
instruments thereof, in order to prevent its discovery;
(c) By harboring,.concealing or assisting in the escape of the principal of the
crime, provided the accessory acts with abuse of his or her public functions
or is known to be habitually guilty of some other crime.
Acts deflned in this provision shall be punished in accordance with the
provision of SECTION 10 (d) of R.A. 10364 as stated thereto.
(E) The following shall be considered as "Acts that Promote Trafficking in
Persons":
1. To knowingly lease or sublease, use or allow to be used any room, house,
building or establishment for the purpose of promoting trafficking in persons;
2. To produce, print and issue or distribute unissued, tampered or fake
counseling certificates, registration stickers, overseas employment ceftificates
or other certificates of any government agency which issue these ceftificates,
decals and such other markers as proof of compliance with government
reg-ulatory and pre-departure requirements for the purpose oi promoting
trafficking in persons;
3. To adveftise, publish, print, broadcast or distribute or cause the
adveftisement, pu.blication, printing, broadcasting or distribution by any
means, including the use of information technology and the internet, of any
brochure, flyer, or any propaganda material thit promotes trafficking in
persons;
4. To assist in the conduct of misrepresentation or fraud for purposes of
facilitating the acquisition of clearances and necessary exit documents from
government agencies that are mandated to provide pre-depafture registration
and seruices for departing persons for the purpose of promoting trafiicking in
persons;
5. To facilitate, assist or help in the exit and entry of persons from/to the
country at the international and local airpofts, terminals, territorial boundaries
and seaports who are in possession of unissued, tampered or fraudulent
travel documents for the purpose of promoting trafficking in persons;
6. To confiscate, conceal or destroy the passport, travel documents, or
personal documents or belongings of trafficked persons in furtherance of
trafficking or to prevent them from reaving the country or seeking redress
from the government or appropriate agencies;
a

,
pageT of 16
Ord. No. 0532-18
7. To knowingly benefit from, financial or othenryise, or make use of, the
labor or seruices of a person held to a condition of, involuntary seruitude,
forced labor, or slavery;
B. To tamper with, destroy, or cause the destruction of evidence, or to
influence or attempt to influence witnesses, in an investigation or prosecution
of a case under this Act;
9. To destroy, conceal, remove, confiscate or possess, or attempt to destroy,
conceal, remove, confiscate or possess, ?ry actual or purported passport or
other travel, immigration or working permit or document, or any other actual
or purpofted government identification, of any person in order to prevent or
restrict, or attempt to prevent or restrict, without lafful authority, the
person's liberty to move or travel in order to maintain the labor or seruices of
that person; and
10) To utilize his or her office to impede the investigation, prosecution or
execution of laMul orders in a case under this Act.
(F) The following are considered as "eualified Trafficking in persons,,:
1. When the trafficked person is a child:
2. When the adoption is effected through Republic Act No. 8043, othenruise
known as the *Inter-Country Adoption Act of 1995" and said adoption is for
the purpose. of prostitution, pornography, sexual exploitation, foiced labor,
slavery, involuntary servitude of debt bondage;
3. When the crime is committed by a syndicate, or in large scale. Trafficking
is deemed committed by a syndicate if carried out by a gioup of three (3) oi
more persons conspiring or confederating with one another. It is deemed
committed in large scale if committed against three (3) or more persons,
individually or as a group;
4. When the offender is a spouse, an ascendant, parent, sibling, guardian or
a person who exercises authority over the trafficked person-oi when the
offense is committed by a public officer or employee;
5. When the trafficked person is recruited to engage in prostitution with any
member of the military or law enforcement agencies;
6. When the offender is a member of the military or law enforcement
agencies;
7. When by reason or on occasion of the act of trafficking in persons, the
offended party dies, become insane, suffers mutilation oi is afflicted with
Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) or the Acquired Immune Deficiency
Syndrome (AIDS);
B. When the offender commits one or more violations of SECTION 4 over a
period of sixty (60) or more days, whether those days are continuous or not;
and
9. When the offender directs or through another manages the trafficking
victim in carrying out the exploitative purpose of trafficking.

Ord. No. 0532-18
(G) Confidentiality - At any stage of the investigation, rescue, prosecution and
trial of an offense under this Act, law enforcement officers, prosecutors, judges,
coutt personnel, social workers and medical practitioners, as well as parties to the
case, shall protect the right to privacy of the trafficked person. Towards this end,
law enforcement officers, prosecutors and judges to whom the complaint has been
referred may, whenever necessary to ensure a fair and impartial proceeding, and
after considering all circumstances for the best interest of the parties, order a
closed-door investigation, prosecution or trial. The name and personal circumstances
of the trafficked person or any other information tending to establish the identity of
the trafficked person and his or her family shall not be disclosed to the public.
It shall be unlawful for any editor, publisher, and reporter or columnist in case of
printed materials, announcer or producer in case of television and radio, producer
and director of a film in case of the movie industry, or any person utilizing tri-midea
facilities or electronic information technology to cause publicity of the name,
personal circumstances, or any information tending to establish the identity of the
trafficked person except when the trafficked person in a written statement duly
notarized knowingly, voluntary and willingly waives said confidentiality,
Law enforcement officers, prosecutors, judges, couft personnel, social workers and
medical practitioners shall be trained on the impoftance of maintaining
confidentiality as a means to protect the right to privacy of victims and to encourage
victims to file complaints.
(H) Any person who buys or engages the seruices of trafficked persons for prostitution
shall be penalized for "Use of Trafficked Persons"
SECTION 5. AS PROVIDED UNDER R.A. NO. 9208 AS AMENDED AND
EXPANDED BY R.A. NO. 10364 AND FOR PURPOSES OF THIS ORDINANCE, THE
PENALTIES SHALL BE AS FOLLOWS:
The aforementioned acts shall be "strictly" penalized in accordance with the
provisions of Sections 10 and 11 of Republic Act No. 9208 as amended and expanded by
R.A. 10364.
SECTION 6. ROLE OF THE LOCAL GOVERNMENT OF DAVAO CITY
In order to help in the international and national effofts to address the problem of
trafficking in persons, the Local Government of Davao City shall implement programs,
seruices and activities, in cooperation with the Council (IACAT-DC), that will help
contribute to the prevention, protection and recovery and reintegration of trafficked
persons in the City, pursuant to SECTION 16 (k) of R.A. No. 10364 and SECTION 19 of the
Implementing Rules and Regulation of R.A. No. 9208.
SECTION 7. IMPLEMENTING AGENCY
a. The Inter-Agency Council Against Trafficking-Davao City (IACAT-DC) shall be the
primary arm of the City Government of Davao in the implementation of the provisions of
R.A. No. 9208 as amended and expanded by R.A. No. 10364 and this Ordinance.
Its Comoosition Shall Include, but not limited to, the followino:
Chair: The City Mayor, or his/her representative
Vice Chair: The SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod Chairperson of the Committee on
Women, Children and Family Relations

Ord. No.0532-18
Members
: 3,3:gf$j#fig,$,l:#l*i,.fl#6imi,r-wD
xr,
. philippine Information Agency (pIA)
. SANGGUNIANG panlungsod (Sp)
. City Planning and Development Office (CPDO)
. Office of the City prosecutor of Davao City (OCPDC)
. City Legal Office
I ff*,ilffi#1ffi#l-*-- i :::i. ., D LG
i f;[g'*'*fllh:fli*[# Desk (wcpD,
i #:r*r*:#rrx1#ippr*;,;,gr*,
: !!xHi'i sH:*I?1,:H[:,f,(9'glleastern Mindanao Resionar
Office (NBI-SEMRO)
Depaftment of Justice -Region XI Anti-Trafficking in persons (DoJRATF XI)
3 Members from Non-Government Organizations (NGOs)
(b) The Inter-Agency Council Against Trafficking-Davao City (IACAT-DC) shall
convene quafterly, and it may call for such special sessions as it may deem necessary.
A majority of its members shall constitute a quorum to conduct official business.
(c) The Integrated Gender and Development Division (IGDD) shall serve as the
Secretariat of the Local Council (IACAT-DC)
SECTION 8. FUNCTIONS OF THE TOCAL COUNCIL
. The Inter-Agency Council Against Trafficking - Davao City (IACAT-DC) shall address
and consider the following agenda, in addition to its present functions and duties:
a. Formulate the comprehensive and integrated programs to prevent and
suppress trafficking in persons;
b. Coordinate the implementation of the City Government's programs
and activities on anti-trafficking, as enumerated under sectionl to,
lL, 12, 13, L4, 15 and 16 of this Ordinance;
c. Coordinate with neighboring LGUs and its Punong Barangays about
the viability of grouping together and pooling res-ources ioi a more
effective delivery of the mandatory services under R.A. 920g as
amended and expanded by R.A. 10364;
d. Recommend relevant policies or legislative measures to the

Ord. No. 0532-18
e. Spearhead the preparations and activities in the observance of
December 12 and July 30 of every year as " International Day Against
Trafficking" and "World Day Against Trafficking" respectively;
f. Designs capability development program for LGU and other member
agencies involved in anti-trafficking programs and/or activities;
g. Establish a data base on cases of trafficking in persons and trafficking
incidents;
h. Submit an annual repoft on trafficking on the Local Chief Executive;
i. Report the city state of trafficking in persons to other stakeholders;
j. Create and convene a task force for case build up and case
interuentions; and
k. Peform such other related functions or task as may be imposed by
law or ordinance.
SECTION 9.
PERSONS
MONITOR AND DOCUMENT CASES OF TRAFFICKING IN
(a) The City Government shall monitor and document cases of trafficking in
persons within its territorial jurisdiction;
(b) The IACAT-DC or any member of the Council who has any knowledge or
learns of facts or circumstances that a person will be, or may be, or has been
trafficked shall immediately report the same, either orally or in writing or through
other means of the Local Council, the nearest police or law enforcement agency,
CSSDO or the IGDD;
(c) The City Health Office shall likewise assist in the monitoring function by
reporting to the police or law enforcement officers any suspected cases of trafficking
in persons for purposes of sexual exploitation, incident to the conduct of the STI, HIV
and AIDS surueillance, daily hygiene check-up and other similar medical examinations;
(d) The concerned local government officers shall also contribute to the
monitoring function by repofting to the police or law enforcement officers any
suspected cases of trafficking in persons for purposes of forced labor, slavery or
involuntary seruitude, incident to the conduct of inspection of factories/plants, poultry,
piggery and other agricultural structures, or other labor-intensive establishments;
(e) The concerned local government officers shall also contribute to the
monitoring of minors travelling alone on public utility buses, van terminals, sea pofts
and other modes of public transport that can potentially be the transpoftation or
harboring of minors for purposes of trafficking;
(0 All other local agencies or offices, including barangays, receiving repofts
of suspects cases of trafficking within the City, shall furnish the IGDD with an incident
report and regular updates for monitoring and documentation purposes; and
(g) All agencies and organizations involved in case management of trafficking
in persons shall furnish documentation to the IGDD, and such shall be complied for a
centralized database which shall also be managed by the IGDD.
SECTION 10. REPORTORIAL DUTY
The IACAT-DC shall submit an annual report to the Executive and Legislative
depaftments on the situation of trafficking in persons within the City, as well as on the
policies and programs instituted to respond to the problem.
SECTION 11. VISITATION POWERS
(a) As an incident to its mandated duty under SECTION 9 of this Ordinance, the
City Government of Davao, through the IACAT-DC, in coordination with the
Department of Labor and Employment (DOLE) and the Davao City Police Office

Ord. No. 0532-18
(DCPO) shall conduct inspection, in coordination with proper authorities, of rooms,
houses, buildings or establishments repofted as being used for trafficking activities, or
in the course of regular and/or routinary inspection. The authorities shall have access
to the employer's records and premises and the right to copy therefrom, to question
any employee and investigate any fact or matter which may be necessary to
determine if there are trafficking activities.
(b) The unjustifiable refusal of the owner or person in charge of any room,
house, building or establishment to submit the same for inspection by the city officials
and authorities shall give rise to the prima facie presumption of willfully impeding
and/or obstructing the mandated duty of the City Government to monitor and
document trafficking cases, and may expose said owner or person in charge to
possible prosecution for violation of this Ordinance;
(c) The Local Government shall formulate the proper guidelines and protocols
that will be obserued in the exercise of this power, in order to ensure compliance
SECTION L2. CANCELLATION OF LICENSES OF ESTABLISHMENTS
WHICH VIOLATE THE PROVISIONS OF R.A. NO. 9208 AS AMENDED AND
EXPANDED BY R.A. 10364
(a) The Office of the City Mayor shall effect the cancellation or revocation of the
business permits and/or licenses of any individual or establishment found to have violated
the provisions of R.A. No. 9208 as amended and expanded by R.A. 10364.
(b) All managers or owners of establishments applying for new business permits
and/or licenses or applying for renewal thereof shall undergo an anti-trafficking seminar
conducted by the IACAT-DC and sign a written undeftaking that they shall not employ
minors who are victims of trafflcking. Bars, nightclubs, videoke/KTV Bars, and other
similar establishments providing adult amusement or entertainment, as well as
factories/plants, poultry, piggery and other agricultural structures, or other labor-intensive
establishments, shall be required to keep copies of Philippine Statistics Authority (pSA)
authenticated birth ceftificates of all employees as proof of age, and provide other prooi
of identification with recent photo of the employee duly issued by the government such as
NBI, Police, Postal or Barangay Clearance/ID. The managers and owners as mentioned
shall be required to conduct or attend anti-trafficking in persons seminar prior to the
issuance or renewal of their license or business permit.
(c) All boarding houses, pension houses, dormitories and similar establishments that
provide temporary or permanent lodging facilities for the purpose of generating any
rental/lease income, shall be required to apply for business permits and/or licenses. The
owner, proprietor or manager of any such establishment applying for new business
permits and/or licenses or applying for renewal thereof, shall sign a notarized written
undeftaking that they shall not engage in any acts, which promote trafficking such as, but
not limited to, allowing the use of their premises to such acts. Further, the said
establishment shall have the mandatory duty to report suspected cases of trafficking to
the IACAT-DC.
(d) The refusal and/or failure to sign the above-mentioned undertaking or the
subsequent violation of the same, or the failure to keep employees' birth certificates as
required under paragraph (b), or the possession of falsified bifth certificates in the
records of employment, or the failure to report suspected cases of trafficking to the
IACAT-DC or the POEA or other local authorities, shall constitute a ground for immediate
denial or cancellation of the business permit and/or licenses of the individual or the
establ ishment concerned,

Ord. No. 0532-18
SECTION 13. ENSURE EFFECTIVE PROSECUTION OF TRAFFICKING CASES
(a) The City Government shall ensure the effective prosecution of cases of trafficking
in persons committed within its territorial jurisdiction.
(b) For this purpose, there shall be created a Local Joint Task Force Against
Trafficking in Persons(LITFATp) to be composed of:
(1) The Head of the city prosecution office of Davao city, as chair; and
(2) One personnel/representative each from the:
a.
b.
c.
d.
e.
f.
Davao City Police Office;
Regional Office of the Bureau of Immigration;
Regional Office of the National Bureau of Investigation;
Regional office of the Department of social welfare and Development;
City Social Seryices Development Office (CSSDO); and
Non-government organizations with a track record in working and/or
advocating on the issue of trafficking in persons.
(c) The Local Task Force shall coordinate all effofts in the conduct of surueillance,
investigation and rescue operations of trafficking cases. It shall likewise closely collaborate
with the IACAT-DC in the formulation of plans and programs for the prevention and/or
reduction of trafficking in persons. For this purpose, the [ocal Task Force shall convene at
least once a month.
(d) Within one (1) month from the adoption of this Ordinance, the IACAT-DC shall
convene for a meeting with all the members of the Local Task Force for the specific
purpose of developing the guildelines and protocols for the effective coordination in the
conduct of surueillance, investigation and rescue operations on trafficking in persons.
(e) To facilitate the successful prosecution of trafficking cases, the IACAT-DC shall
establish a witness protection and suppoft seruices program for victims of trafficking that
shall include, but not limited to, the establishment of a safe house for rescued victimsfbasic
welfare and legal seruices, incentives in the form of financial suppoft or alternative
livelihood opportunities.
(f) The Local Task Force will formulate programs for preservation of evidences and
the assurance of the appearance of witnesses, as well as assist in the build-up of cases
involving violation of R.A. 9208 as amended and expanded by R.A. 10364.
SECTION 14. DEPUTIZING THE BARANGAYS
(a) The City Government shall deputize the barangays in maintaining registries of
local residents recruited for employment elsewhere, their respective destinations, the
identities of the recruiters and other relevant data.
(b) The barangays may likewise be authorized to require all licensed recruiters to
first apply for a barangay permit before engaging in any recruitment activities in their
respective areas of responsibility.
SECTION 15. INFORMATION CAMPAIGN AGAINS TRA
PERSONS.
(a) The City Government shall undeftake an information campaign, that is
monitored by the IACAT-DC as paft of its functions, against trafficking in persons through
the establishment of the Migrant Advisory and Information Network (MAIN) desk
-in
coordination with the Department of the Interior and Local Government (DILG), philippine

Ord. No. 0532-18
Information Agency (PIA), Commission on Filipinos Overseas (CFO), NGOs and other
concerned agencies, organizations and individuals;
(b) The City Government shall conduct information dissemination activities at the
barangay level and coordinate such activities with the BCPCs and the DILG. Information
dissemination activities shall likewise be conducted in schools, churches and communities;
(c) In paftnership with the PIA, the city government shall produce and publish
information, education and communication materials about trafficking in persons such as,
but not be limited to, primers, flyers, brochures, posters, stickers, television/radio/print
advertisements, and websites, which shall be made available in piers, pofu, airpofts, bus,
van, taxi and jeepney terminals and other similar places where acts of trafficking may be
committed and/or facilitated.
(d) In partnership with the Internet Caf6 Association of Davao (ICAD) the City
Government shall conduct an aggressive campaign against trafficking
-through
social
networking and monitor the promotion of the advertisement of trafficking in tne intirnet.
SECTION 16. ENCOU
INITIATIVES
(a) The City Government shall encourage and support community-based
initiatives which address the issue of trafficking in persons;
(b) It shall provide financial support and technical assistance to BCpCs and
qualified and accredited NGOs and POs that are engaged in activities for the protection,
recovery and reintegration of victims of trafficking.
SECTION 17. MANDATORY SERVICES TO TRAFFICKED PERSONS
(a) Pursuant to SECTION 23 of R.A. No. 9208, the City Government shall, in
coordination with the concerned government agencies, make available
to the following mandatory seruices to trafficked persons, to wit:
1. Emergency shelter or appropriate housing;
2. Counseling;
3. Free legal services, which shall include information about the
victim's rights and the procedure for filing compraints, craiming
compensation and such other legal remedies available to them,
in a language understood by the trafficked person;
4. Medical or psychological seruices;
5. Livelihood and skills training;
6. Educational assistance to trafficked victim-suwivors;
(b) The CSSDO shall be the lead agency in the coordination and provision
of (1), (2), (4), (5) and (6). On the other hand, the City Legal Office
shall lead in providing (3).
(c) All efforts shall be made to ensure that the above seryices will be
rendered in child-friendly and gender-sensitive manner.
SECTION
ISSUANCES
18. ENACTMENT OF SUPPLEMENTAT ORDINANCES AND
The City Mayor's Office and the City Council shall formulate and promulgate
supplemental ordinances, resolutions or executive issuances aimed at providing suppot
to trafficked persons and adopt necessary measures to prevent and suppress trafficking in
persons within its territorial jurisdiction.

Ord. No. 0532-18
SECTION 19. STRENGTHENING OF EXISTING BODIES.
The City Government shall exeft effort to strengthen, activate and mobilize existing
committees, councils, similar organizations and speciSl bodies at the local level to preveni
and suppress trafficking, in persons, through IACAT-DC.
SECTION 20. PENALTIES AND SANCTIONS FOR VIOLATIONS OF THIS
ORDINANCE.
.
fh. following acts or omission shall be deemed violations of this Ordinance and shalt
be subject to the imposition of the corresponding penal sanctions:
a. Any public official/officer who has any knowledge or learns of facts or
circumstances that a person will be, or may be, oi has been trafficked, and
fails to immediately repoft such to the IACAT-DC or other concerned agencies
shall be penalized with a fine of P2,5OO.OO or imprisonment not exce6ding 6
months.
b. The owner, manager, or person incharge of any house, building or
establishment who refuses, without iustifiable reason, to submit said
premises for inspection by city authorities as provided under SECTION 11 of
this Ordinance shall be penalized, at the first instance, with immediate
suspension of the corresponding business permit and/or license issued By the
city government until compliance. At the second instance, if the offender
acquires a new business permit or license to operate and has committed
another violation to the ordinance, he/she shall be punished with the
cancellation of the business permit and/or license, without prejudice to reapply or reinstate the same, and with a fine of Five Thousand pesos
(P5,000.00) or imprisonment of one (1) month.
c. The unjustifiable refusal and/or failure to sign the written undeftaking
required under SECTION 12 (b) and (c) of this Ordinance, or the subsequeni
violation of the same, or the failure to keep employees' birth ceftificates as
required under SECTION 12 (b), or the possession of falsifled birth certificates
in the records of employment, shall be penalized, at the first instance with
immediate cancellation of the corresponding business permit and/or license
issued by the city government. At the second instance, the offender shall be
punished with a fine of p2,500.00.
d. In Addition to the penalty imposed in SECTION 20 (a), (b), and (c), the penalty
of community service for six (6) months shall likewise be imposed if deemed
appropriate by the couft of competent jurisdiction. The community seruice to
be undertaken shall be determined by the LGU.
SECTION 21. REWARDS AND INCENTIVES.
(A) The Local Council shall institute an incentive scheme whereby rewards may
be given to persons who provide vital information that lead to the prevention or
suppression of trafficking activities and to the apprehension of offenders involved therein;
(B) Likewise, awards and recognition shall be given to persons, organizations, or
establishments that champion or support activities which contribute to itre prevention or
suppression of trafficking in persons.
SECTION 22. APPROPRIATION
The initial amount of P500,000.00 is hereby appropriated out of the General Fund
(Statutory Obligations) of the IGDD/City Treasury to cover the first-year implementation
of this Ordinance. Thereafter, the amount equivalent to l}o/o of the Gender and
Development (GAD) funds from the Internal Revenue Allotment (IRA) and 10olo of GAD

Ord. No. 0532-18
funds from any Official Development Assistance (ODA) shall constitute the annual budget
of the IACAT-DC for purposes of implementing this Ordinance.
The funds allocated for this purpose shall accrue exclusively to the program, in
accordance with the guidelines on the matter by the Philippine Commission on Women
(PCW).
SECTION 23. REPEALING CLAUSE - All ordinances, resolutions, executive
issuances, or rules and regulations, or pafts thereof, whose provisions are consistent with
or contrary to the provisions of this Ordinance, are hereby deemed repealed, amended, or
modified accordingly.
SECTION 24. APPLICABILIW CTAUSE - The provisions of existing ordinances,
or executive orders dealing with related subject matter such as protection against child
labor and exploitation, anti-violence against women and children, and the like, which are
not contradictory with this Ordinance, are hereby adopted as an integral part of this
Ordinance.
SECTION 25. SEPARABILIW CLAUSE - If, for any reason, any SECTION or
provision of this Ordinance is declared unconstitutional or invalid, other sections or
provisions hereof not affected by such declaration shall continue to be in full force and
effect.
SECTION 26.
approval.
EFFECTMTY - This Ordinance shall take effect immediately upon
ENACTED, on August 28, 2018, by a unanimous vote of all the Members of the
Sanggunian, there being a quorum.
CERTIFIED CCRRECT:
^ A,l,tn,tin )t. l,d
cHARrro N. qANTOS
Secretary to the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod
(City Government Department nead I)
ATTESTED
\
JI
G.
Vice Mayor
Presiding Officer
cns/jsdam

Ord. No. 0532-18
a
APPRovED' g-Q-!&2lE[, 2018
z.
City Mayor
,g
ATTESTED:
ATTY.
T
City Admin