I
Ref, No. CIdO-2019-00181
2TD INDORSEMEHT
January 24,20Lg
Respectfully returned to Ms. Charito N. Santos, Secretary to the SANGGUNIANG
Panlungsod, this City, the attached duly signed and approved Ordinance No. 0458-18,
SERIES of 2018, entitled "AN ORDINANCE PENALIZING THE SNEAKING IN, USING AND
CARRYING OF ANY FORMS OF PROHIBITED ITEMS INSIDE JAIL AND DETEI{TION
CENTERS IN THE CITY OF DAVAO", for your information and appropriate action.
For the City Mayor:
ATTY.
DOMINGO
)
/e- lJq
RELEASED
CMO. CRD
JAN
;0
24-3004 o (082) 241-1000 loc. 265 o davaocitymayor@gmail.com
LIFE IS h
Second Floor, City Hall Building, City Hall Drive, San Pedro St., Davao City
B'W'
"Reflrblic of thei Ptritippines
OFFICE OF THE CITY IVIAYOR
t
i
:
t1

atl
ie
I
OFFICE OF THE CITY LEGAL OFFICER
Ref. No. 1131-19-10
Legal Opinion Noll_series of 201?
ORDINANCE NO. O45B-18, SERIES OF 2018 entitled,, AN ORDINANCE
PENALIZING THE SNEAKING IN, USING AND CARRYING OF ANY
FORMS OF PROHIBTTED ITEMS INSIDE JAIL AND DETENTION
CENTERS IN THE CITY OF DAVAO."
l't INDoRSEMENT
January 15, 2019
Respectfully forwarded to the Office of the City Mayor, through the Office of
the Administrator, this City, the subject Ordinance No. 0458-18, SERIES of 2018,
informing your end that the measure is free from legal infirmity, citing SECTION 458
(1) (5) of RA 7L6A known as the Local Government Code of 1991, hereto quoted:
sEclloN 458.
Powers, Duties, Functions and compensation. - (a)
The SANGGUNIANG panlungsod, as the legislative body of the city, shall enact
ordinances, approve resolutions and appropriate funds for the general welfare of
the city and its inhabitants pursuant to SECTION 16 of this Code and in the proper
exercise of the corporate powers of the city as provided for under SECTION 22 of
this Code, and shall:
)ofi
((ii) Maintain peace and order by enacting measures to prevent and
suppress lawlessness, disorder, riot, violence, rebellion or sedition and impose
penalties for violation of said ordinances;
(iii) Approve ordinances imposing a fine not exceeding Five thousand
pesos (P5,000.00) or an imprisonment for a period not exceeding one (1) year,
or both in the discretion of the couft, for the violation of a city ordinance;
Hence, it is recommended that the same be approved.
^llLllATTY. MARI$A A. GALLO, RSW
Attorney 1V
Approved w,
OSMUNDd P. VILLANUEVA, ]R
Acting City Legal Officer
Date Approved: January 16, 2019
OFF!CE
RECEi
D,$EI
Tlil,riL.
0F r!'IE CIRI A[:1i]1i]}[STSATOR
cny ual''cl
BfrVAO ciIY h tt/,*
rF
oFr{cE GF THE GrTy,ftS$Silt$n$m
$H
RTGM'ED B1':
".,';IT: 1 8 JAN
1'
MARY A NN
ATVARADO II
R E n\, E
JAN 1S 20t9
\,IED BY
'Jal'f?q:%l1g
ltr
aqo-?An

' Republic of the Philippines
January 1*,2019
0ilrr q
STEA T, DU'I'EHTE
City Ltayor
r-ity of flauac
O
*
ivlar-lanr
rf, l0 P.ls(
Putsuant tc Sub-settion -1, Paragrap-rh C, Settion 48,J, Articte One, Tide Five,
{hapter 3, Beok III and SerJion 54 of Book I Republk ,&rt No. 7L*0, ottrerwise known
# the Local G*vernment crde of 1,J91, wE arE ftirnishing you a copy of
Rsolution I{o, O1{H}2-18 and Ordirrance No, O45*-18, both SERIES of t01E of the
Sanggunlailll Fanlungscd, City +f Liav;or frr your inforrnation, q1uldanr* and apprr*priate
arfion.
\Irrv tnrlv unu.E
. Urwuf )t. l^^^d
CHARTTO r'l- +A!{Tffi
Serretary to he SANGGUNIANG Fanlungs*J
{City Governnient Department Head II}
/
CORRESPONDENCE & RECORDS DIVISION
RECEIVED
JAN 11 20tg
MARY ANN
t'&
t,

Office of the San$guniang Panlungsod
tSth City Council
J0th Regular Session
SERIES of 2018
PRESENT:
Councilor Victorio U. Advincula Jr.
Councilor Nilo M. Abellera Jr.
Councilor Maria Belen S. Acosta
Councilor Al Ryan S. Alejandre
Councilor Dante L. Apostol Sr.
Councilor Conrado C. Baluran
Councilor Joanne M. Bonguyan-Quilos
Councilor Ma. Cherry Ann M. Bonguyan
Councilor Pilar C. Braga
Councilor Carmelo J. Clarion
Councilor Jimmy G. Dureza
Councilor Edgar P. Ibuyan Jr.
Councilor Leah A. Librado-Yap
Councilor Rene Elias C. Lopez
Councilor Diosdado Angelo A. Mahipus Sr.
Councilor Bonifacio E. Militar
Councilor Avegayle Dalodo Oftiz
Councilor Antoinette G. Principe - Castrodes
Councilor J. Melchor B. Quitain Jr.
Councilor Jesus Joseph P. Zozobrado III
OFFICIAL BUSINESS:
Vice Mayor Bernard E. A!-ag
CouncilorDanilo C. Dayanghirang
CouncilorApril Marie C. Dayap
ABSENT:
Councilor January N. Duterte
Councilor Marissa P. Salvador-Abella
Councilor Mary Joselle D. Villafuerte
- Temporary Presiding Officer
- Acting City Mayor
- Attended the
Philippine
Councilors League in Legaspi
City
- Attended the
National
Movement for Young Legislators
(NMYL) 87th Board Meeting in
Legaspi City
- On Domestic Emergency Leave
- On Vacation Leave
- On Domestic Emergency Leave
ORDINANCE NO. 0458.18
SERIES of 2018
AN ORDINANCE PENALIZING THE SNEAKING
IN, USING AND CARRYING OF ANY FORMS OF
PROHIBITED ITEMS INSIDE JAIL AND
DETENTION CENTERS IN THE CITY OF DAVAO

Ord. No. 0458-18
Be it ordained by the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod of Davao City in session assembled
that
SECTION 1. SQPE - This Ordinance shall cover alljails and detention centers
situated within the jurisdiction of the City of Davao and such other confinements as the
court may direct to place the inmates or patients for their confinement.
SECTION 2. DEC1ARATION OF POUCY- The provisions of this Ordinance, in
consonance with the City Governmenfs commitment for good governance and
maintaining public order and safety, hereby declares this policy to strengthen the
implementation of security measures imposed by the Bureau of Jail Management and
Penology (BJMP), the Philippine National Police (PNP), Rehabilitation Centers and other
Law Enforcement Agencies. For this purpose, the City of Davao adheres to the following
measures:
a) To prevent the occurrence of deaths, riots, hostage taking and escape of
inmates or patients by prohibiting the possession and entry of deadly and
bladed weapons;
b) To prevent the inmates or patients from coercing, intimidating, threatening
complainants and witnesses or other forms of retaliation, orchestrate crimes
and organize rescue plan by prohibiting the possession and entry of cellular
phones and other electronic gadgets;
c) To prevent the inmates or patients from bribing jail or detention center
personnel or custodians by prohibiting the possession of excessive amount of
money in cash or check inside jails or detention centers;
d) To safeguard public health and well-being of the inmates or patients by
penalizing the possession and entry of illegal drugs, alcoholic substances,
cigarettes and tobaccos; and
e) To promote public welfare in the community by ensuring the rehabilitation and
development of inmates or patients in preparation for their eventual
reintegration into the society upon release.
SECTION 3. rc-As
used in this Ordinance, the following
shall be construed to mean as follows:
a) Prohibited ltemF any article or thing forbidden by law and/or by jail and
detention center rules that pose as security hazards or endanger the lives of
inmates, patients, visitors or personnel. Under this Ordinance, the following
are considered prohibited items:
i.
Dangerous drugs and paraphernalia;
ii.
Deadly and bladed weapons;
iii. Firearms and/or its accessories or any part thereof,
ammunition, improvised explosive devices and any possible
components such as electric wires, batteries, fertilizers, etc.;
iv. Metal cutting saw or blades and digging tools not permitted
by the jail management;
v.
Cigarette and other tobacco products, including e-cigarettes
and the like;
vi.
Liquor, beer, coconut wine and other alcoholic substances;
vii. Cash which is more than the prescribed allowable amount,
including checks, or other commodities of exchange such as
jewelry, appliances and gadgets;
viii. Mobile phones and other electronic devices;
ltt

Page 3 of I
Ord. No. 0458-18
Pornographic materials and gadgets;
Gambling paraphernalia; and
Other items or products that may be prescribed as prohibited
by law;
b)Dangenous Drugs and Paraphernalia any dangerous drugs and
paraphernalia defined under Republic Act No. 9165, or the "Comprchensive
Dangerous Drugs Act of 2002"and its Implementing Rules and Regulations;
c) Bladed Weapons - include pointed or blunt weapons such as "knife",
"speari "pana", "daggeri "boloi "barongi "krisi or "chako", except where
such articles are being used as necessary tools or implements to earn a
livelihood or in pursuit of a lawful activity as defined under Presidential Decree
No. 9, as amended by Batas Pambansa Blg. 6;
d) Deadly Weapons - include hand grenades, rifle grenades and other
explosives as defined under Presidential Decree No. 9;
e) Firearm - referc to any handheld or poftable weapon, whether a smal! arm
or light weapon, that expels or is designed to expel a bullet, shot, slug, missile
or any projectile, which is discharged by means of expansive force of gases
from burning gunpowder or other form of combustion or any similar
instrument or implement. Fufther, the barrel, frame or receiver is considered
a firearm as defined under SECTION 3 (I) of Republic Act. No. 10591;
f) Ammunition - refers to a complete unfixed unit consisting of a bullet,
gunpowder, caftridge case and primer or loaded shell for use in any firearm
defined under SECTION 3(b) of Republic Act No. 10591;
g) Improvised Explosive Device - refers to a tool or instrument of any
explosive or incendiary device, whether chemical, mechanical, electronic,
electrica! or otherwise used or intended to be used by that person for its
manufacture, construction, assembly, delivery or detonation, where the
explosive or incendiary device is capable or is intended to be made capable of
producing destructive effect on contiguous objects or causing injury or death
to any person as defined under Republic Act. No. 9516;
h) Tobacco Products and E-cigarettes - items such as cigars, cigarettes,
smokeless tobacco or any snuff or chewing tobacco, pipe tobacco and rollyour-own tobacco; including vape and electronic devices that do not burn or
use tobacco leaves but instead vaporize a solution the user then inhales which
stimulate the experience of smoking tobacco;
i) Alcoholic Beverage - refers to any fermented liquor, such as wine, beer, or
distilled spirit, that contains ethyl alcohol or ethanol as an intoxicating agent;
i) Excessive Cash - monetary equivalent is more than the prescribed allowable
amount in the possession of an inmate or patient, subject to the standard
policy of the jail or detention center;
k) Mobile Phone any device that can make and receive telephone
calls/communications, text messaging, MMS, email, internet access and short
range wireless communications (Infrared or Bluetooth) by connecting to
cellular networks, allowing access to public telephone networks;
ix
X.
xi

Page 4 of 8.
Ord. No.0458-18
l) Electronic Devices - include any computer, laptop/netbook, ipad/tablet,
personal digita! assistant, digital camera or camcorder, two-way radio, or other
similar devices;
m) Pornographic Materials and Gadgets - refer to any electronic or manual
gadgets or devices used to stimulate sexua! pleasures, including videos,
images and publications (either in printed or digital bnn) focusing on intimate
body parts either directly or implicitly, making it sexually explicit and contrary
to public policy, public order, good customs and moral standards, and those
defined under SECTION 3 (h) of Republic Act No. 9208;
n) Gambling Paraphernalia - refers to any equipment or item used for the
game of cockfighting, jueteng, bookies (iai-alai or horse racing, to include
game fixing) and other lotteries, cara y cruz or pompiang and the like; black
jack and lucky nine, pusoyor Russian Poker, monte baccarat and other card
games; palk que, domino, mahjong, high and low, roulette, pinball and other
mechanical inventories or devices; seven-eleven dice games and the like;
o) Jail and Detention Center - refers to a place of confinement for persons
under arrest or deprived of liberty, awaiting trial for the filing of formal charges
in couft or seruing sentence. This term also includes rehabilitation centers,
lock-ups, hospitals (in the case of hospital arresb, confinement or chtk-ups)
and other facilities ordered by the court to be the place of the detainee,
prisoner or patienfs confinement;
p) Inmate - the generic term used to refer to a detainee or prisoner;
q) Detainee - a person who is accused before the couft or competent authoriW
and is temporarily confined in jail while undergoing or awaiting investigation,
trial, or final judgment;
r) Prisoner - an inmate convicted by fina! judgmen$
s) Patient or Resident - refers to a person with impairment that may be
physica!, mental, emotional or some combination of these ordered by the court
or competent authority to remain in lock-up, hospital or rehabilitation center
for their care or confinement;
t) Sneaking In - the act of bringing, taking in, carrying, using or possessing,
in a secretive, fuftive or deceitful manner any items which may be considered
as prohibited items within the meaning of this Ordinance, without the
knowledge or authorization of the management of the jail or detention center;
u) Search - consists of physical search including, but not limited to, inspection
of all items being carried, the emptying of pockets, pat/frisk search, rub
search, strip search, visual body search, etc., as may be deemed necessary by
the jail or detention center;
v) Pat/Frisk Search - a search wherein the officer pats or squeezes the
subject's clothing to attempt to detect prohibited items. For same gender
searches, the paVfrisk search is normally accomplished in conceft with Rub
Search;

acts:
Page 5 of8
Ord. No.0458-18
w) Rub Search - a search wherein the officer rubs and/or pats the subject's
body over the clothing, but in a more intense and thorough manner. In a rub
search, the genital, the buttocks, and breast (of females) areas are carefully
rubbed - areas which are not searched in a paVfrisk search. Fufther, it shall
not be conducted on cross-gender individual;
x) Strip Search - a search which involves the visual inspection of disrobed or
partially disrobed subject;
y) Visual Body Search - a search which involves the inspection of the anus
and/or vaginal area, generally requiring the subject to bend over and spread
the cheeks of the buttocks; to squat and/or otherwise expose the body cavity
orifices;
z) Possession - is the control a person intentionally exercises toward a thing,
or the manual or ideal custody of anything, which may be the subject of
propefi, for one's use and enjoyment;
aa) Personnel - refers to officers, warden, wardress, staff or other persons
employed in jails and detention centers;
bb) Seruice Provider- referc to any person, office, agency or group providing
jail or detention centers with welfare seruices such as health, education,
religious guidance, livelihood assistance, legal aid, etc.;
cc) Visitor - a person who enters a jail facility for a definite period of time to
meet an inmate or personnel of BJMP or conduct an official business or activity
inside the jail. It includes immediate family, relative, friend, lawyer, doctor,
spiritual adviser, journali$/reporter, seruice provider or any person who enters
the jail or detention center for the purpose of seeing or conferring with an
inmate;
dd) Minor - a person below the age of legal majority - eighteen (18) yearc of
age.
sEcTIoN4.@-Thefollowingareconsideredprohibited
a) Possession of Prohibited Drugs
In conformity with Republic Act No. 9165, or the "Comprehensive Dangerous
Drugs Act'i no person shall possess or use any of the prohibited drugs upon
entering and/or while inside the jail and detention center.
b) Possession of Deadly and Bladed Weapons
No person shall possess deadly and bladed weapons upon entering and/or
while inside the jail and detention center, in relation to Presidential Decree
No. 9, as amended by Batas Pambansa Blg. 6.
c) Possession of Firearms and Ammunition
No peron shall possess firearms, its accessories, and ammunition upon
entering and/or while inside the jail and detention center, in relation to Republic
Act. No. 10591.
d) Possession of Improvised Explosive Devices
No person shal! possess improvised explosive devices and its components
upon entering and/or while inside the jail and detention center, in relation to
Republic Act. No. 9516.

Ord. No. 0458-18
e) Possession of other Prohibited ltems
AII persons, including, but not limited to, inmates, detainees, prisone6,
patients, visitors, jail and detentlon center perconnel, and seruice providers are
forbidden to sneak in, use or carry any prohibited item as enumerated and
defined in SECTION (3A) hereof into the jail or detention center, without proper
authorization from the heads of the jail or detention center.
Any prohibited item found in the possession of a person or any of his/her belongings,
during the search prior to entry and/or while inside the jail or detention center, after
notice that the said items must be sunendered, shall be presumed willfully possessed.
SECTION 5. EEEgE9re - Seruice providers or visitors in their official capacity
shal! be allowed to bring in items and gadgets which may be prohibited items necessry
in the performance of their functions, provideQ they should first secure an authorization
from the head of the jail or detention center prior to entry.
In no case shal! dangerous drugs and paraphernalia be allowed in the jail or detention
center except those provided in the treatment or rehabilitation of patients or residents
in authorized establishments or those brought in by the Philippine Drug Enforcement
Agency (PDEA) for educational purpose.
SECTION 6. PENALW - Any violation of the provisions of this Ordinance shall
be meted with the following penalties:
a) Violation of SECTION (4a) shall be proceeded against, in accordance with the
provisions of R.A. 9165, otherwise known as the "Comprehensive Dangerous
Drugs Ad of 2002'i
b) Violation of SECTION (4b) shall be proceeded against, in accordance with the
provisions of P.D. 9, as amended by B.P. 6; while R.A. 1780 will cover the
concealmentof deadly and bladed weapons.
c) Violation of SECTION (4c) shall be proceeded against, in accordance with the
provisions of R.A. 10591.
d) Violation of SECTION (4d) shall be proceeded against, in accordance with the
provisions of R.A. 9516.
e) Violation of SECTION (ae) shall be penalized accordingly, via:
1) Minorc - minors found in violation of this Ordinance shall be processed
in accordance with the provisions of R.A. 932+4, as amended by R.A.
10630, or the "Juvenile Justice and Welfare Act of 2006".
Provided, that the use of minors by any person in the commission of any
offense punishable under this Ordinance shall constitute an aggravating
circumstance which shall be penalized at the maximum degree.
2) Private Percons
i)
Firct Offense - Fine of Five Thousand Pesos (P5,000.00),
confiscation of prohibited item and/or banning entry in the
facility for six(6) months;
ii)
Second Offense - Fine of Five Thousand Pesos (P5,000.00),
fofeiture of the confiscated prohibited item and/or banning
entry in the facility for nine(9) months; and,
iii) Third Offense - Fine of Five Thousand Pesos (P5,000.00),
forfeiture of the confiscated prohibited item, and/or banning
entry in the facility for twelve (12) months.

Ord. No.0458-18
Provided, that the reentry in the facility shall commence only after the
service of sentence, payment of fines and lapse of the prescribed ban
period in accordance with SECTION 4(b) Paragraph 2 of Republic Act
No. 7438.
3) Perconnel of Jail and Detention Center
i) First Offense - Fine of Five Thousand Pesos (P5,000.00), forftiture
of the confiscated prohibited item and/or imprisonment for six (6)
months;
ii) Second Offense - Fine of Five Thousand Pesos (P5,000.00),
foffeiture of the confiscated prohibited item and/or imprisonment for
nine (9) months; and,
iv)Third Offense - Fine of Five Thousand Pesos (P5,000.00), foffeiture
of the confiscated prohibited item and/or imprisonment for twelve
(12) months.
Provided, such fine or penalty, or both, shall be imposed at the
discretion of the court as mandated by Republic Act No. 7160, or the
"Local Gouernment Code of 199f i
Provided fufther, that the penalties imposed herein, shall be without
prejudice to the filing of fufther administrative and/or criminal actions
against the erring personnel.
SECTION 7,
- The confiscated prohibited
item shall be placed in the custody of the warden or his/her authorized representative for
safekeeping and shall be forfeited in favor of the government through the appropriate
agency.
SECTION 8. W
- All jails and detention centerc are
mandated to post a notice in a public and conspicuous place prior to any search and
entry, the items defined in this Ordinance as prohibited items and the penalties anchored
for such violation.
SECTION 9. SEPARABILITY CLAUSE - If, any part or provision of this
Ordinance is declared unconstitutional or invalid, other sections or provisions hereof not
so declared and not affected by such declaration shall remain in full force and effect.
sEcTIoN10.rc-AlIordinances,oranypartthereof,which
are contrary to or inconsistent with the provisions of this Ordinance are hereby repealed
or amended accordingly.
SECTIOT{ 11. EFFECTMTY CLAUSE - This Ordinance shall take effect fifteen
(15) days after its publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the City of Davao
and after posting in two conspicuous places in the City.

i
Ord. No.0458-18
ENACTED, on the 29th day of May 2018, by a majority vote of al! the Members
of the Sanggunian, there being a quorum.
CERTIFIED CORRECT:
ATTESTED:
ATTESTED:
Temporary
ATTY.
Officer
JR,
Secretary to the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod
^()hr,rt \- 1"6
CHARTTO N. FANTOS
(City Government Depaftment Head II),
APPRovED, 2J $u zots,2018
z.
Citv Mavy'
\
t
City
T.
-