l-ffit
saciil'G
'c.O
.l
iiESPt',
ft[CEiU
Ref. No. CAdO 2018{5185
TDtYfrq
B
'1r''9
)'-----'4Y
:',IgFnAU4!92-l
2d Indorsement
July 9, 2018
Respectfi.rlly returned to the Ms. Charito N. Santos, Secretary to the
SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod, this City, the herein Ordinance llo, 0432-18 SERIES of
2018, with Legal Opinion No. 315 SERIES of 2018, duly signed and approved, for
your appropriate action.
For the City Mayor:
ATTY. TRISTAN
Assistant
(
CM/} - CRD
RELHASED
'"r rt
)
.2 JU_L
2018
ru
-L-l$
Second Floor, City Hall Building, City Hall Drive, San Pedro St., Davao City
(082) 224-3004 o (082) 241-1000 loc. 265 o davaocitymayor@gmail.com
pAw @
a
LIFE
IS HERE
t
e
OFFICE OF THE CITYA/LAYOR
I

'
Republic of the Philippihes .
OFFICE OF THE CITY LEGAL OF
Tel. No.298-6970
Trunk Llne No. 241-1000 Loc26712251230
o0o
LEGAL OPINiON NO, 3.5
SERIES Or 201S "-
Ref. No. 1131-18-0084
RE: ORDINANCE NO. M32-18, SERIES of Z01g entitled *AN
ORDINANCE AMENDING CERTAIN PROYISIONS OF THE AMENDED
TOURISM CODE TO INCLUDE IN TTS SCOPE THE
ESTABIISHMENTS ENUSTED IN HOMESHARTNG APPUCATIONS
AND FOR OTHER PURPOSES."
lST INDORSEMENT
June 29, 2018
Respectfully forwarded to the Office of the Clty Mayor, through the ffice of the
City Administrator, both this City, the subject Ordinance, informing your end that the
subject ordinance had lapsed into law having been entered in the executive department
on May 3, 2018. At any rate, it is obserued that the same is free from legal infirmity.
Hence, it is rmommended that the ordinance be approved.
ATTY.
A. GALLO, RSW
Acting
City Legal fficer
Approved by:
ATTY. OSHUN
P. VILLAI{UEVA, JR
OIC-Acting City Legal Officer
Date approved: July 2, 2018
wdtlt 32-1 8_torrisrn_ I<f-0r)ff.,_ 6-2s- t I
@dcz.
oFFrc E nt 3,+$,fl#,sHu!f
|$TRAT0R
DAVA0 EITY hal /
RECEIVED AY | ***"Tvz|+*
DATE: .-, . , . --. "- .-"--
.:tct oF THE ctlY ADmnslR t,-F
CtTy ilAt.LoFF|Cts
TIME:
'1lr
BY
oAVAi' Cti \
rg5
"% llh^n3

Republic of the Philip'Bines
May 2, 2018
SARA Z. DUTERTE
City Mayor
cns_lnb
rn
t
*
Madam
0084f .ap
Pursuant to Sub-SECTION 3, Paragraph C, SECTION 469, Arfrcle One, Title Five,
Chapter 3, Book III and SECTION 54 of Book I Republic Act No. 7t60, othenruise known
as the Local Government Code of 1991, we are furnishing you a copy of
Resolution No. 01965-18 and Ordinance No. O432-L8, both SERIES of 2018 of the
SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod, for your information, guidance, and appropriate action.
Very truly yours,
^ hil^n; l- k
CHARTTO N. SANJTOS
Secretary to the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod
(City Government Department Head II)/
CMO - CRD 7t@
RECEIVEE
MAY 0 1 lllL. /a-nU,a tZ^^

Republic cif the Philippines
City'of Davao
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
18th City Council
12h Regular Session
SERIES of 2018
PRESENT:
ON OFFICIAL BUSINESS:
Councilor Maria Belen S. Acosta
Councilor April Marie C. Dayap
ABSENT:
Bernard E. Al-ag
Victorio U. Advincula Jr.
Al Ryan S. Alejandre
Dante L. Apostol Sr.
Conrado C. Baluran
Ma. Cherry Ann M. Bonguyan
Danilo C. Dayanghirang
January N, Dutefte
Edgar P. Ibuyan Jr.
Leah A. Librado-Yap
Rene Elias C. Lopez
Diosdado Angelo A. Mahipus Sr.
Bonifacio E. Militar
Antoinette G. Principe-Castrodes
J. Melchor B. Quitain Jr.
Marissa P. Salvador-Abella
Halila Y. Sudagar
Jesus Joseph P. Zozobrado III
Nilo M, Abellera Jr.
Joanne M. Bonguyan-Quilos
Pilar C. Braga
Jimmy G. Dureza
Avegayle Dalodo Ortiz
Mary Joselle D. Villafuefte
- Presiding Officer
- Represented the City Mayor in the
Bureau of Fire Protection - Luncheon
Meeting with Japanese Ambasador
Koji Hanada at Grand Men Seng
Hotel
- On Sick Leave
- On Maternity Leave
- On Domestic Emergency Leave
- On Domestic Emergency Leave
- On Vacation Leave
Vice Mayor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
ORDINANCE NO.0432.18
SERIES of 2018
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CERTAIN PROVISIONS OF
THE AMENDED TOURISM CODE TO INCLUDE IN ITS
SCOPE THE ESTABLISHMENTS ENLISTED IN
HOMESHARING APPLICATIONS AND FOR OTHER
PURPOSES

page,2 of l
Ord. No. 0432-18
Be it ordained by the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod of Davao City in session
assembled, that:
SECTION 1. AMENDMENT - Afticle III, SECTION 3 of the Amended Tourism
Code is hereby amended to read as follows:
SECTION 3. DEFINHON - For purpose of this Ordinance, the following terms
shall mean:
ACCREDITATION-a certification issued by the Department to a tourism
enterprise that officially recognizes it as having complied with the
minimum standards for the operation of tourism facilities and services;
CITY - refers to the City of Davao;
COUNCIL - refers to the Tourism Council of Davao City;
DEPARTMENT - refers to the Depaftment of Tourism;
LICENSE - shall mean the privilege or the authority granted by the
office of the city Mayor, through a recommendation frorn the city
Tourism office, to own, generate and maintain a tourist-related
establishment and/or facility covered by this Ordinance;
OFFICE - refers to the City Tourism Operations Office;
REGISTRATION - refers to the act of listing all of all tourism-related
establishments including those activities and promotion programs, after
such tourism-related establishments have been certified by the city
Government of Davao, through the city Tourism operations office, as
having conformed with the minimum standards/requirements in
accordance with the Ordinance;
COMMUNITY-BASED EcorouRISM a form of ecotourism that
promotes the participation of the locals in the tourism trade of their
locality, where they have a stake in the benefits and profits thereof.
community-based ecotourism ensures and improves the natural
ecosystems of the locality as paft of their income generating and locatity
development strategy, and more importantly, the well-being of the locals
themselves.
LOW-IMPACT (VISITOR) BEHAVIOR - the proper etiquettes observed by
the visitor during his/her stay in the locality. This behavior must be an
aid in sustaining the natural ecosystem in the locality where he is
visiting, and ensures that his actions bring no harm or injury towards the
environment and to the locals. such respect and caution shall also be
obserued by the locals towards their visitors.
APP - refers to a mobile apolication or a computer proqram
designed to run on a mobile device such as a phone. tabiet or
watch,
HOMESHARTNG APPLTCATTON - refers to an online olatform or
application (apo) that allows individuals to rent out their homres
and rooms or aoartments to tourists and visitors. inctuding but
not limited to Airbnb. vRBo. triooinq.com, Flipkev. Homelta%
bookino.com and other applications.

't
page 3of7
Ord. No. 0432-18
TOURISM ENTERPRISES - refers to facilities, seruices and attractions
involved in tourism, such as, but not limited to travel and tour seruices;
tourist transport seruices, whether for land, sea or air transportation; tour
guides; adventure sports seruices invotving such sports as
mountaineering, spelunking, scuba diving and other sporG activities of
significant tourism potential; convention organizers; accommodation
establishments, including, but not limited to hotels, resorts, apartelles,
tourist inns, motels, pension houses and home stay operations; tourism
estate management seruices, restaurants, shops and department stores,
sports and recreational centers, spas, museums and galleries, theme
parks, convention centers and zoos. It could either be:
A
PRIMARY TOURISM ENTERPRISE - refers to facilities, seruices and
attractions that are directly related or involved to tourism such as,
but not limited to the following:
1. HOMESTAY refers to an alternative seruice
accommodation offered by the Locals that allows visitors to
rent a guest room in the local's home. Basic
accommodations are to be expected, but additional
seruices, not contrary to law, public order, good morals and
customs, may be offered;
2. HOTEL refers to full seryice accommodation with
reception and guest rooms generally offering private
facilities with an onsite restaurant, room and bar services
available. Additional facilities such as business centers and
conference rooms are expected;
3. RESORT - refers to full service accommodation located in a
more natura!, relaxed environment, with reception and
guest rooms generally offering private facilities with an
onsite restaurant, room and bar seruices available.
Additional recreation facilities and tour seruices are
expected;
4. SELF-STYLED ACCOMODATION ESTABLISHMENT - refers to
any edifice or premises or a completely independent part
thereof, which is used for the regular reception,
accommodation or lodging of travelers and tourists for a fee
which is not othenruise classified as a hotel resoft or motel,
including but not limited to the following, to wit:
APARTMENT HOTEL (APARTEL), CONDOTEL, DORMITETHOSTEL, HOMETEL, HOMESTAY, BED & BREAKFAST AND
ACCOMMODATION ESTABLISHMENTS, ROOMS OR
UNITS ENLISTED IN A HOMESHARING APPLICATION
AS A HOST;
5. PENSION HOUSE/INN a private or family-operated
establishment that generally caters to tourists and/or
travelers, containing not more than twelve (12) independent
lettable rooms where nreals are provided for guests;
/

Ord. No. 0432-18
6. MOTORIST HorEL (MorEL) - any structure with several
separate. units, primarily located along the highway with
individual or common parking space, at which motorists may
obtain lodging and, in some instances, meals;
7. TRAVEL AGENCY - an entity which may either be a single
proprietorship,_partnership or corporation regularly eng.g"din
the business of extending to individual or group, suchlervices
pertaining to documentation of travel papers, ticketing, sales
and/or accommodation, handling and/or conduct oi' torrs
within or outside the philippines, whether for a fee,
commission or any form of compensation;
B. TouR OPERATOR - a commercial enterprise which may either
be a single proprietorship, paftnership or corporation or
cooperative that engages in business pertaining to domestic
inbound tour;
9. TOURIST TRANSPORT opERAToR - an entity that may either
be a single proprietorship, paftnership or cooperation
extending to individuals or group such services pertaining to
tourist transportation;
10. TICKETING AGENTITICKETING COMPANY -
a
commercial enterprise engaged solely in selling tickets for
land, air and sea transportation seruices;
11. TouR GUIDE - an individual licensed by the city to guide
tourists for a fee;
12. MICE refers to Meetings, Incentives, conventions and
Events seryices and facilities;
13. MICE ORGANIZER - shall mean to include professional convention
organizer, Professional Exhibition organizer and Event organizer
a. Professional convention organizer (pco) an enterprise
providing professional seruices in organizing and managing
meetings and conventions/congresses, whether creating lnd
organizing its own meeting, convention or congress or for
another entity. Its capability is to provide seruices from
conceptualization to implementation of an event;
b. Professional Exhibition organizer (pEo) an enterprise
providing professional services in oiganizing and managing
exhibition or trade fairs/trade shows whether creating and
organizing its own exhibition or managing an exhibition for
another entity. Its capability is to provide seruices from one
conceptualization to implementation of an event;
c. special Event organizer - an enterprise providing professional
seryices in organizing and managing special events or shows,
whether creating and organizing its own event or managing
an event for another entity. Its capability is to proviae
services from conceptualization to imptementation of an
event;

B.
Ord. No. 0432-18
14. MICE FACILITY - refers to the facilities or venues that cater to
meetings, incentives, conventions, events and exhibits;
SECONDARY TOURISM ENTERPRISE - facilities and seruices that maybe
related to tourism such as, but not limited to the following:
1.
RESTAURANT - any commercial establishments offering meals,
beverages and drinks to the public;
MALL - an establishment, usually a large often closed area
comprising of a department store, grocery, shops, fast food and
food Stations, as well as recreational facilities;
sHoP - a retail establishment offering specific lines of goods and
seruices such a crafts, souvenirs, fruit stands and other similar
items;
DEPARTMENT sroRE - a store that sells or carries several lines
of merchandise and that is organized into separate sections for
the purpose of promotion, seruice, accounting and control;
SPORTS AND RECREATIONAL FACIUTIES - these include aquatic
and water spofts facilities, golf courses, diving spots, and other
similar facilities forming part of a propefi;
ECOTOURISM - a form of sustainable tourism within a natural
and cultural heritage area where community pafticipation,
protection and management of natural resources, culture and
indigenous knowledge and practices, environmentar education
and ethics, as well as economic benefits are fostered and pursued
for the enrichment of host communities and the satisfaction of
visitors;
HEALTH & WELLNESS CENTER - is an establishment that has a
holistic approach to health and wellness, rest and relaxation that
aims to treat the body, mind and spirit by integrating a range of
professionally administered health, wellness, fitness and beauty,
water treatment and seruices, such as, but not limited to:
Spa - a facility that exudes a tranquil environment offering
various amenities and seruices intended to relieve stress,
pamper the body and make one feel relaxed and
rejuvenated to promote a healthier way of life;
Day Spa a spa offering a variety of professionally
administered spa seruices to clients on a day use basis;
Destination Spa - a spa which has for its sole purpose to
provide clients with lifestyle improvement and health
enhancement through professionally administered spa
seruices, physical fitness, education programming and on-site
accommodations where spa cuisine or healthy food is
offered;
d. Resort/Hotel Spa - a spa owned by and located within a
resoft or hotel providing professionally administered spa
seruices, fitness and wellness components;
6.
a
b
c

B.
page 6 of7
Ord. No. C432-LA
MEDICAL TOURISM - refers to a travel to another country, place
or destination for the purpose of receiving some form of medical
treatment in such country, place or destination;
MEDICAL TOURISM FACILITY/GENTER - a medical facitity of
international standards of accredited and/or certified by
international bodies that has specific fields of expertise;
ENTERTAINMENT refers to the estabrishments that offer
enteftainment and recreation to visitors and tourists, which may
include the following:
Bar - is any place or establishment whose principal business is
the sale of alcoholic beverages or liquors of any kind to be
used and consumed within its premises. A bar may or may not
include music, live band as a form of enteftainment. A bar
that allows dancing within its premises shail be considered a
night club, cabaret, or dance hall;
10.
t4.
a
Restobar - is a restaurant that includes in its package a
mellow sound through piped in music or live band;
Videoke bar - an establishment where people come to eat,
drink and sing.
11.
MUSEUM - a structure, open to the public and is intended for
educational purpose. It displays permanent collections which are
being preserued and depict the immediate lifestyre, curture and
tradition of the community. It is either a pubric or private
institution with collections ranging from chirdren, drt, visual
science and ethnographic;
t2. THEMED PARK - a specific type of amusement park where the
landscaping, buildings, rides and attractions are based on a
pafticular theme;
b.
c.
MARINA - a type of poft for nautical tourism characterized by a
dock or basin with moorings and supplies for yachts and small
boats;
AGRI-TOURISM - involves any agriculturally based operation or
activity that brings visitors to a farm or agricultural area suitable
for planting crops, vegetables and fruits, for raising and breeding
of livestock, fish (freshwater/sea water), cattle, etc., and for othei
agricultural development and production where lectures on
farming (organic/inorganic) methods are conducted, where
crop/fruit/vegetable picking and fishing may be available by the
public, and where crops, fruits, vegetables and trees endemic to
COMMUNITY-BASED TOURISM - aims to incrude and benefit local
communities, pafticularly indigeneous peoples and villages with
tourism projects that gave local people a fair share of benefits or
profits of tourism and have a say in deciding how incoming
tourism is managed.
15.

!. '?age7of7
Ord. No. 0432-18
SECTION 2. IMPLEMENTING RULES AND REGULATIONS - The City
Tourism Operations Office, the Business Bureau, the City Treasure/s Offrce and the City
Legal Office in consultation with the City Tourism Council, shall draft the Implementing
Rules and Regulations for the purpose of enforcing the provisions contained in this
Ordinance;
SECTION 3. SEPARABILITY CLAUSE - The provisions of this Ordinance are
hereby declared valid, and in the event that one or more of such provision are declared
invalid, the validity of all the provisions shall not be affected thereby;
SECTION 4. REPEATING CLAUSE - Any Ordinance, rules or regulations, or
any pafts thereof not consistent with this Ordinance are hereby repealed, amended or
deemed modified;
SECTION 5. EFFECTMTY - This Ordinance shall take effect immediately
upon approval;
ENACTED, on March 23,20t8, by a unanimous vote of all the Members of the
Sanggunian, there being a quorum.
CERTIFIED CORRECT:
For and in the absence of the Secretary:
-lfi{i
^C*
NILDA c. MtrTNo
Acting Secretary to the SANGGUNIANG panlungsod
(Assistant Secretary to the SanggunianS panlunqtod)
ATTESTED:
E. AI.AG
Vice Mayor
Presiding Officer
ncm/jsdam
ATTY. ZULEIKA
LOPEZ
APPROVED: fr t udy zon 2018
z.
ATTESTED
City Administrator o
r city tuufl