t
2oth city Council
17h Regular Session
SERIES of 2024
PRESENT:
Councilor
Vice Mayor
Councilor
Councilor
Courrcilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Courrcilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Albefto T. Ungab
- Temporary Presiding Officer
Nilo M. Abellera Jr.
Luna Maria Dominique S. Acosta
Bai Hundra Cassandra Dominique N. Advincula
Bernard E. Al-ag
Wilberto E. Al-ag
Al Ryan S. Alejandre
Dante L. Apostol Sr.
Conrado C. Baluran
Jessica M. Bonguyan
Louie John J. Bonguyan
Pilar C. Braga
Augusto Javier G. Campos III
Jonard C. Dayap
January N. Duterte
Edgar P. Ibuyan Jr.
Diosdado Angelo Junior R. Mahipus
Rodolfo M. Mande
Kristine May John Abdul Mercado
Bonz Andre A. Militar
Temujin B. Ocampo
Myrna G. L'Dalodo-Ortiz
Lorenzo Benjamin D. Villafuerte
Trisha Ann J. Villafuefte
lesus Joseph P. Zozobrado III
ABSENT:
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
J. Melchor B. Quitain Jr.
Marissa S. Abella
Richlyn N. Justol-Baguilod
- OB- Acting City Mayor
- On Sick Leave
ORDINANCE NO. 048,9.24
SERIES of 2O24
A1{ ORDINANCE ENHANCING EXISTIilG ORDINANCES
R.ETATTNG TO LTQUOR. Ar{D SOBRTEW, REGUTATTNG THE
coNsuMPTroil, DrsrRrBUTroN, SALE AND SUPPLY OF
LIQUO& AND OTHER ALCOHOLTC BEVERAGES, REPEAITNG
FOR THIS PURFOSE ORDTNANCE NO. 004-13, SERTES OF
2OL3, OTHERWTSE KilOWil AS THE *LTQUOR BAN
oRDINANCE" AND ORDTNANCE I{O. O41G18, SERTES OF
2OL8, OTHERWTSE KNOWN AS 'THE SOBRTETY ORDTNANCE
OF DAVAO CITY"

Ord. No. 0489-24
ARTICLE 1. GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE - This Ordinance shall be known as the "The
Comprehensive Liquor Code of Davao City,"
SECTION 2.
, - Under Republic Act No. 7t60 or the
Local Government Code of 1991, the City Government of Davao shall exercise the powers
expressly granted, those necessarily implied therefrom, as well as powers necessary,
appropriate, or incidental for its efficient and effective governance, and those which are
essential to the promotion of the general welfare. Within its respective territorial
jurisdiction, it shall ensure and support the maintenance of peace and order, and the
preseruation of the comfoft and convenience of its inhabitants.
Thus, it is the policy of the City Government of Davao to ensure the prevention,
suppression, and imposition of proper penalties for drunkenness in public places, and
other activities that are inimical to the welfare and morals of the inhabitants of the City.
The City shall also regulate the consumption, distribution, sale, and supply of liquor and
other alcoholic beverages in the interest of health, economy, peace, and public safety.
SECTION 3. DEFINITION OF TERMS. - For purposes of this Ordinance, the
following terms are defined operationally:
1. Accommodation Establishments - refer to establishments operating
primarily for accommodation purposes including, but not limited to, hotels,
resorts, apaftment hotels, Mabuhay accommodation establishments (tourist
inns, motels, pension houses, bed and breakfast, vacation homes, hostels,
and other similar accommodation establishments) private homes used for
homestay, ecolodges, seruiced apaftments, condotels.
2. Alcohol beverages/Liquor - any drink which contains alcohol as an active
agent including, but not limited to, beers, liquors, spirits, vodkas, cocktails,
wines, locally-distilled alcoholic drinks, such as but not limited to, coconut
wine or tuba, lambanog, basi, and others.
3. Bar or Restobar - shall include any place or establishment whose business
includes the sale of alcohol beverages or liquors of any kind to be used or
consumed within its premises.
4. Children Rescued- refers to minors rescued from any conceivable forms of
danger, including substance use and abuse.
5. Establishments - a collective term used to describe any commercial
building, edifice, structure, and the business housed therein.
6. Immediately Dangerous to Life or Health (IDLH) - describes hazards
in which acute exposure to the hazard poses a severe risk of immediate
health damage, injury, or death. This is determined by the Food and Drug
Administration (DFA), or the City Health Office (CHO), with proper
coordination with FDA in accordance with their existing policies and
standards.
7. Liquor Ban is the total governmental prohibition of production,
transportation, sales, consumption of, or having any transactions or activities
involving liquor and/or other alcoholic beverages for a ceftain period as
specified in this Ordinance.

Ord. No. A489-24
8. Minorc - are persons who are below the age of the majority or the legal
age of eighteen (18) years, or persons who are eighteen (1s) years of age
or older but are incapable of taking care of themselves due to their mental
incapacity.
9. Motor Vehicle - refers to any land vehicle propelled by any power other
than muscular power.
10. Percon-in-charge - refers to the presidenVmanager in case of a company,
corporation, partnership or association, the owner/proprietor/operator in
case of a single proprietorship, of establishments, whether tourismaccredited or not, or the administrator in case of government or private
property, facility, office or building, workplaces, enclosed or partiallyenclosed public places, public buildings, public outdoor spaces, places of
worship, hazardous areas, food preparation areas, health facilities of any
kind, centers of youth activity or other facilities frequented particularly by
minors, and the city/municipal schools, superintendent, school president,
dean or glncipal in case of schools.
11. Public streets and sidewalks - any public street, highway, bridge,
thoroughfare, sidewalk, walkway, footpath or footbridge, within the
territorial jurisdiction of Davao City.
L2. Public Parks and Playgrounds - any park, plaza, playground, gyffi,
cemetery, public spotts, and passenger water vessels, or other public seruice
or recreational areas created, designated or maintained by the Barangay,
City, or National Government as a public area.
13. Restaurant refers to any establishnrent offering rneals and lor
refteshments to the public for a fee; and
14. Other Public Areas - the following shall be considered as "other pubtic
areas"within the meaning of this Ordinance:
o Private areas generally open to the public, such as parking areas, green
spaces, gardens, playgrounds, and other areas for recreational and leisure
activities; and
o Uninhabited private places used without the permission of the owner such
as beaches, empty lots, abandoned houses, or buildings.
ARTICTE II. REGUIATIOilS ON SIGNAGES
SECTION 4. PRESCRIBED SIGNS. - Every establishment supplying, selting,
serving, and/or offering liquor and other alcoholic beverages shall be required to put up i
prescribed sign bearing the words "NO UQUOR TO MINORS,"'LIQUOR |-AST CALL By 12
A.M.'and "NO LIQUOR BY 1:00 A.M.'the letters of which shall not be less than three (3)
inches tall and be placed in conspicuous areas within the establishment.
In every public area, such as public parks and public playgrounds, there shat! be
visible and well+naintained "NO LIQUOR" signs with at least eight by eighteen (8x18)
inches in size and the International "NO ALCOHOL" symbol (consisting of a pictoriai
representation of a liquor bottle and alcoholic beverage enclosed in a red circle with a red
bar across it) shall occupy no Iess than sixty percent (50o/o) of said signage. The
remaining fotty percent (40o/o) of the signage shall show the pertinent
information/precautionary statement, as follorrus :

Ord. No. 0489-24
*STRICTLY NO LIQUOR
Per Ordinance No.
Violators are fined up to
Repoft to
Persons in charge of point-of-sale establishments, shall post the following notice,
together with a graphic/picture-based health warning on the health consequences of
consuming liquor and other alcoholic beverages, as prescribed by the Department of
Health (DOH), clearly and conspicuously:
*SALE AND/OR DISTRTBUION OF LIQUOR AND OTHER ALCOHOLTC
BEVERAGES TO MINORS IS UNI.AWFUL"
ARTICTE III. REGULATIONS ON THE SALE AND DISTRIBUTION
SECTION 5. PROHIBITION ON THE SELLING, SERVING, PROVIDING AND
OFFERING OF LIOUOR AND OTHER ATCOHOLIC BEVERAGES TO MINORS.-
A. No person or establishment may sell, selve, provide, or offer Iiquor, alcoholic
beverages, coconut wine or tuba, and other locally distitled alcoholic drinks to
minors. Likewise, it shal! be unlawful for any person to practice, or establishment
to allow the "tagay system" or sharing of glasses and to have a drinking session
with minors, regardless of the relationship of the minor to the person with them.
B. When the age of a person to be served is in doubt, the owners, managers, or
employees of said establishments are mandated to require the presentation of
such person's valid government-issued identification (ID) card, which shall be
"prima facie" evidence of the age of said persons.
a. Persons who fail to show their valid government-issued ID cards or who
present such ID which is of questionable validity shall be denied seruice.
In the case of minors, he/she shall be immediately referred to the City
Social Welfare and Development Office (CSWDO) for his/her rescue. The
children rescued under this Ordinance shall be subjected to and dealt
with following the provisions of the Juvenile Justice and Welfare Act of
2006 under R.A. No. 9344, as amended by R.A. No. 10630, and the chitd
and Youth welfare code of L974, under Presidential Decree (p.D) No.
603.
b. Persons or establishments who fail to require the presentation of such
valid government-issued ID cards shall be held liable under SECTION 15 of
this Ordinance.
c. It shall not be a defense for any person, or establishment and its
employees in selling, serving, providing, or offering any liquor and other
alcoholic beverages, that he/she/it did not know or was not aware of the
real age of the minor. Neither shall it be a defense that he/she/it did not
know nor had any reason to believe that any liquor and alcoholic
beverages were for the utilization or consumption of the minor to whom
it was sold.
C. Persons who acquire, buy, purchase or possess liquor and other atcoholic
beverages on behalf of a minor, or direct, order, compel, request, ask, force,
abet, or permit a minor to acquire, buy, purchase, possess, use or consuffle
liquor and other alcoholic beverages shall be accordingly penalized under this
Ordinance.

Ord. No. M89-24
SECTION 6. PROHIBITION ON THE SELTING OF LIOUOR.- Any person or
establishment selling liquor, alcoholic beverages, coconut wine or tuba, and other locallydistilled alcoholic drinK and the like, that causes intoxication, are hereby prohibited from
selling the same beginning one otlock in the morning (1:00 A.M.) until eight oOock in the
morning (8:00 A.M.).
SECTION 7. PROHIBTTION ON THE CONSUMPTION OF LIOUOR WITHIN A
COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENT.- All establishments that allow the drinking of hquor,
alcoholic beverages, coconut wine or tuba, and other locally-distilled alcoholic drinks and' the
like within its premises shall also be prohibited from allowing the consumption of the same
within such premises beginning one otlock in the morning (1:00 A.M.) until two oHock in the
afternoon (2:00 P.M.). Likewise, all establishments shall be subjected to the prohibition
provided under SECTION 6 of this Ordinance.
In establishments, the last call or last order of liquor or any other alcoholic beverages
must be done by twelve midnight (12:00 A.M.) and all orders shall be consumed by one
otlock in the morning (1:00 A.M.). Posting of such signs shall also be visibly placed in the
establishment as provided in SECTION 4 of this Ordinance.
SECTION 8. REGUTATION ON CONSUMPTION OF TIQUOR IN
ESTABLISHMENTS NEAR SCHOOLS. HEALTII FACILMES. P1ACES OF WORSI{P.
FACITITIES FREQUENTED BY MINORS AND PUBTIC BUILDINGS.- rut estaOtisfrnrents
located within a distance of fifty (50) meter radius from the perimeter of any schools, health
facilities, places of worship, facilities frequented by minors, and public buildings, shali not be
allowed to serve or offer liquor or other alcoholic beverages within their premises between
one otlock in the morning (1:00 A.M.) to six otlock in the evening (6:00 p.M.). Likewise, al!
establishments shall be subjected to the prohibition provided under SECTION 6 of tnis
Ordinance.
SECTION 9. SPECIAT EXEMPTIONS FOR TOURISM ESTABUSHMENTS..
Accommodation establishments, such as hotels and resofis, that have been certiFred by tfre
Department of Tourism (DOT) and/or the City Tourism Operations ffice (CpOO) as
accredited tourism-accredited accommodation establishments, shall be exempf from'the
prohibiUons provided under Sections 7 and 8 of this Ordinance; provided that, alcoholic
beverages shall be consumed only within such establishment and provided that, the person-incharge of such accommodation establishment shall undertake and provide measures to
suppress disorderly conduct and disturbance of the place and its surroundings due to liquor
use or consumption; Provided, further, that all accommodation establishments referred heiein
shall be subjected to the prohibition provided under SECTION 6 of this Ordinance.
SECTION 10. PROHIBITION ON CONSUMPTION IN PUBTIC PIACES.- The
consumption of alcoholic beverages in public streets, sidewalrc, public part<s, playgrounds,
and other public areas is prohibited twenty-four (24) hours and seven (z)'AiVs i weef)
subject to the provisions of the succeeding sections hereunder.
The consumption of the same aboard any motor vehicle found or parked within the
prohibited areas also constitutes a violation of this ordinance.
SECTION 11. EXEMPTIONS TO CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC PLACES.- The
following shall be exempted from the provisions of SECTION 10 of this Ordinance:
a. Customers of any establishment whose business is authorized or permitted by
the City to use a portion or paft of the street, sidewalk, or public park; and
b. Special occasions or festivities that shall be authorized or permitted by the City
or thrcugh a Barangay Resolution from the Barangay Council concerned

Ord. No. 0489-24
sEcTIoN12.W-AnyperSonorestablishmentselling,seruing,or
offering liquor or any other alcoholic beverages within City-owned or Barangay or Citymaintained establishments, Plazas, Gymq or Streets, shall only be allowed during special
events: provided that a Special Permit from the City Mayor's Office has been issued in
his/her/its favor allowing the selling, seruing, or offering of the same during such special event
held at a certain location mentioned herein on a specific date and time.
SECTION 13. LIQUORS OF DOMESTIC MANUFACTURE: WHEN SAIE OF, MAY
BE PROHIBITED. - Whenever a domestically-manufactured or adulterated liquor or alcoholic
beverage is found by the Anti-Vices Task Force (AVTF) to be unlicensed before the FDA, the
same must be reported to FDA for proper action. Once the FDA issues an order, repoft, or
advisory against any unlicensed domestically-manufactured or adulterated liquor or alcoholic
beverages, AVTF shall ensure that the Business Bureau prohibits the manufacturing and/or
sale of the same, the revocation of the Business Permit and closure of the establishment.
In case an unlicensed domestically manufactured or adulterated liquor or alcoholic
beverage is discovered by the CHO to be IDLH to a person after conducting laboratory tests,
the same must be reported to the FDA for proper action and conflrmation. When the FDA
issues a confirmatory repoft against the unlicensed domestically manufactured or adulterated
liquor or alcoholic beverage, the CHO shall immediately refer the matter to the Business
Bureau for purposes of prohibiting the manufacturing and/or selling of the same, revocation of
the Business Pernit and to order the closure of the establishment.
Any such adulteration made or caused to be made by the owner, or operator of the
establishment shall be penalized under this Ordinance.
ARTICLE IV. ENFORCEMENT AND IMPTEMENTATION
SECTION 14. CREATION OF THE ANTI-VICES TASK FORCE (AWF). - The AntiVices Task Force (AyfD, formerly known as the "Anti-Smoking Task Force (ASTF)," shall be
created by the City Mayor's Office to aid in the implementation, monitoring, and enforcement
of this Ordinance. It shall be composed of the following:
CITY MAYOR
RE PRESENTATIVE DU tY APPOINTED
BY THE CITY MAYOR
CITY TEGAL OFFICER
vrcEs REGUTATTON UNrT (VRU)
MEMBERS:
-Chairperson
-Co-Chairperson
-Vice Chairperson
-Secretariat
1. THE CrrY HFALTH OFFTCE (CHO)
2. THE BUSINESS BUREAU
3. THE OFFTCE OF THE CrTy BUTLDTNG OFFTCTAL (OCBO)
4. THE Crry TOURTSM OPERATTONS OFFTCE (CrOO)
5. THE CrTy INFORMATION OFFTCE (CrO)
6. THE GENERAL SERVTCES OFFTCE (GSO)
7. THE CTTY ENVIRONMENT AND NATURAL RESOURCES
oFFrcE (CENRO)
8. THE CrTy ECONOMTC ENTERPRISES OFFTCE (CEE)
9. THE CITY SOCI,AL WELFARE AND DEVELOPMENT OFFICE
(cswDo)
10. THE SPECIAL OFFICE FOR CHILDREN'S CONCERN
(socc)
11. THE BARANGAY AND CULTURAL COMMUNMES AFFAIRS
DrvrsroN (BccAD)
12. THE PUBLTC SAFETY AND SECURTTY OFFTCE (PSSO)

Ord. No. 0489-24
13. THE DAVAO CrTY POUCE OFFTCE (DCPO)
14. THE DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION (DepEd) xI
15. THE CTTY TRANSPORT AND TRAFFIC MANAGEMENT
oFFrcE (ccrMo)
16. A REPRESENTATIVE OF THE PRIVATE SECTOR
For this purpose, AVTF is tasked to implement, randomly inspect, and monitor
compliance in all places covered by this Ordinance. It shall certiff the appropriateness of all
areas of the establishment, as well as the signages installed, and recommend closure of noncompliant establishments taking into consideration the provisions of existing laws. The purpose
of vice regulations is to protect individuals, especially minors, from the pernicious effects of
exposure to vices, and substance use and abuse, such as, but not limited to, liquor and other
alcoholic beverages, tobacco products, Electronic Device Systems (EDS), Shisha, Vape and the
like, whether with nicotine or not.
With the approval of the City Mayor's ffice (CMO), AVTF shall also have the power to
recommend amendments or revisions of any provision of this Ordinance.
After the publication of this Ordinance, AVTF, in coordination with the Business Bureau
and other concerned agencies, shall conduct an information dissemination to all persons and
establishments. An ocular inspection shall then be conducted on establishments in Davao City
after the effectivity of this Ordinance to determine compliance with the requirements of this
Ordinance.
The AWF, in coordination with the City Information Office (CIO), shall conduct an
information drive on the provisions of this Ordinance and educational awareness campaigns on
the ill effects of all vices through an intensifled tri-media campaign.
The AWF, in coordinatjon with CTTMO and tJle DCPO - Traffic Enforcement Unit fiEU),
shall inspect the presence of signages in all public utility vehicles and strictly monitor its
compliance.
SECTION 15. PENALW CLAUSE. - Violation of the provisions of this Ordinance shall
be subjected to the following penalties, without prejudice to the prosecution of other actions:
OFFENSE
PENALTY
1. Failure to put up prescribed signs required
under SECTION 4 hereof
An administrative fine of One Thousand
Pesos (P1,000.00), without prejudice to
filing a different action
2. Failure to require a person to present a
valid government-issued ID
3. Consuming liquor in public places under
SECTION 10
4. Persons in establishmenb who fail to
strictly obserue the liquor ban period
provided in Sections 6,7,8 and 10
An administrative fine of Three Thousand
Pesos (P3,000.00) and mandated alcohol
cessation counseling
5. Persons causing disorderly conduct and
disturbance in establishments and their
surroundings due to liquor use or
consumption
6. Establishments that allow, abet, tolerate,
or permit the consumption of liquor during
the liquor ban period provided in Sections 7,8
and 10
First Offense - Administrative fine of Three
Thousand Pesos (P3,000.00) and suspension
of business permit

Ord. No. A489-24
7. Establishments under SECTION 8 hereof that
sell, supply, serve, or offer liquor or other
alcoholic beverages beyond the allowable
time provided in SECTION 8
Second and Subsequent Offenses -
Mministrative flne of Five Thousand Pesos
(P5,000.00) and revocation of business
permit
8. Failure of tourism establishments to
provide measures to suppress disorderly
conduct and disturbance caused by liquor use
and consumption
9. Refusal to allow entry of the members of
AVTF or its duly deputized enforcers into
establishments to implement, monitor,
inspect, and enforce the provisions of this
Ordinance
10. Interuening or interfering AVTF members
or their duly deputized enforcers from
performing their duties
11. Domestically-manufacture or adulterate
liquor and other alcoholic beverages that are
IDLH and /or commercialize the same
An administrative fine of Five Thousand
Pesos (P5,000.00), and imprisonment of up
to one (1) year, and revocation of business
permit, if applicable
L2. Selling, serving, providing, or offering
liquor to minors
13. Acquire, buy, purchase, or possess liquor
and other alcoholic beverages on behalf of a
minor
14. Direct, order, compel, request, ask, force,
abet, or permit a minor to acquire, buy,
purchase, possess, use, or consume liquor
and other alcoholic beverages
15. Allow, abet, or permit a percon to
acquire, buy, purchase, or possess liquor and
other alcoholic beverages on behalf of a
minor
16. Accepting a questionable ID or an ID
owned by a different person other than the
person presenting it to allow, abet, tolerate,
or permit a minor to acquire, buy, purchase,
possess, use, or consume liquor and other
alcoholic beverages
L7. Directing, ordering, compelling,
requesting, asking, forcing, abetting, or
permitting a minor to present an ID owned
by a non-minor to acquire, buy, purchase,
possess, use, or consume liquor or any other
alcoholic beveraqes

Ord. No. 0489-24
In the case of minors, the rescued children shall be turned over to the CSWDO who
shall meet with the child and his/her parents or legal guardians for proper alcohol cessation
counseling and the development of the appropriate diversion and rehabilitation program, in
coordination with the Barangay Council for the Protection of Children (BCrc) and the CHO,
and they shall be dealt with the provisions of the luvenile Justice and Welfare Act of 2006 and
the Child and Youth Welfare Code of 1974.
In case of a single proprietorship business, the owner of the offending establishment
shall be made liable for violating this Ordinance.
If the violation is committed by a corporation, trust, firm, partnership, association, or
any other juridical person, the penalty shall be imposed upon the President, General Manager,
and other guilty officer or officers of such corporation, trust, firm, partnership, association or
entity.
For public conveyances, the operator, driver, and/or conductor shall also be made
liable for the violation of this Ordinance. In the absence of evidence to the contrary, the
manager and lor operator shal! be presumed to be the owner of the business under this
Ordinance without prejudice to the application of other laws and regulations.
Every penalty imposed for the commission of a violation under this Ordinance shall
carry with it the forfeiture of the proceeds of the crime and the instruments or tools with
which it was committed.
Such proceeds and instruments or tools shall be confiscated and forfeited in favor of
the City Government of Davao unless they are the propefi of a third person not liable for the
offense, but those articles which are not subject to lawful commerce shall be destroyed.
In addition to the penalty imposed for the violaUon of any provision of this Ordinance,
the same shall carry with it the confiscation and forfeiture of all alcoholic beverages involved
in the commission of the offense.
SECTION 16. ALCOHOL CESSATION COUNSELING.- Alcohol cessation counseling
in accredited clinics and district health centerc is required after the administrative fine has
been paid. The alcohol cessation counselor shall attest that the violator has undergone
counseling by signing his/her name on the citation ticket and attaching the required
counseling form. After complying with the said requirements, the violator shall return the
citation ticket to the apprehending officer or VRU if the deputized enforcer is not a member of
the DCPO.
Notwithstanding the payment of the administrative fine herein provided, the failure ot
any person violating any of the provisions of this Ordinance to undergo the alcohol cessation
counseling shall still warrant the filing of case in coutt.
sEcTIot{17.W-AcitaUonUcketshallbeissuedtoviolatorsofthe
provisions of this Ordinance. The citation ticket shall state, among others, the name and
address of the violator, the specific violation committed, and the conesponding administrative
penalty. There shall be three (3) copies of the citation ticket- the first copy shall be endorsed
to VRU, the second copy shall be given to the violator, and the third copy shall be retained by
the apprehending enforcer.
Failure to pay any of the administrative fines per count shall result in an additional
administrative fine of One Hundred Pesos (P100.00) a day per count; provided that the total
amount of administrative fine per count shall not exceed Five Thousand Pesos (5,000.00);
provided, further, that, non-payment of the total administrative fines per count within three
(3) wor*ing days from the Ume of apprehension or issuance of citaUon Ucket or failure to
undergo the mandated alcohol cessation counseling shall lead to the prosecution of the case
in court subject to the penalties provided herein, this is without prejudice to the prosecution of
other actions.

Ord. No.0489-24
SECTION IS.DEPUTIZED ENFORCERS.- The City Mayor, through VRU, may
deputize and authorize representatives from DCPO to issue the corresponding citation tickets
and apprehend violators, and the same shall be responsible for the strict implementation of
this Ordinance.
Barangay officials or representatives from the PSSO - Civil Security Unit (CSU), the
Business Bureau, CEE, CHO, CSWDO, private sector, non-government organizaiions, and
government organizations may also be deputized and authorized to monitor the compliance
with the provisions of this Ordinance and repoft violations to the proper apprehending officers.
SECTION I9.TRAINING AND DEPUTATION.- All deputized enforcers shall be
required to undergo training on enforcement before they are deputized and allowed to enforce
this Ordinance. Only those who shall complete and pass the training shall be deputized as
enforcers by the City Mayor.
SECTION 20. BARANGAY OFFICIATS.- Barangay Officials in Davao City shall assist
with the information dissemination on the salient features of this Ordinance, and shall properly
coordinate with DepEd XI, the Commission on Higher Education (CHED) XI, the Technical
Education and Skills Development Authoriry CIESDA) XI, the Business Bureau, DCPO, VRU,
PSSO-CSU, CEE, CHO and/or CSWDO in strictly enforcing the provisions herein within the
respective territoria I j u risd iction of thei r Ba ra ngay.
Barangay Officials shall immediately coordinate with DCPO and/or CSWDO and ensure
the rescue of minors whenever they are involved in the possession, sale, acquisition, selice,
distribution, consumption of, or engaged in any transaction involving liquor or any other
alcoholic beverages. Such matter must be promptly reported to the Business Bureau for
appropriate action in case a certain business establishment is found to be part thereof.
SECTION 21. REVIEW OF LIqUOR ORDINANCE.- VRU shall conduct a review of
the provisions provided in this Ordinance every five (5) yearc, or whenever the agenry deems
it necessary to amend the provisions provided in this Ordinance, to ensure the relevance and
appropriateness of the regulations and submit the same to the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod, for
amendment.
SECTION 22. INFORMATION, EDUCATION, AND COMMUNICATION
CAMPAIGN.- There shall be a Public Information Drive regarding the implementation of this
Ordinance and it shall be headed by the City Information Office (CIO), with close coordination
with DepEd, CHED, ALS, TESDA, the Business Bureau, Dcpo, vRU, psso-csu, cEE, cHo,
CSWDO and other enforcing and implementing agencies. Information dissemination through
signageq flyers, audio-visual presentations, and other forms of public information
dissemination shall be established.
The AWF, in coordination with CHO, CSWDO, and the Department of Education XI
(DepEd-XI) shall undertake information dissemination programs and educational awareness
campaigns on the ill effects of all vices to schools, colleges, and universities, conduct capacitybuilding programs, and establish vices cessation clinics in the City.
SECTION 23. IMPLEMENTING RUTES AND REGULATIONS (IRR).- The VRU
shall promulgate such rules and regulations, with the approval of the City Mayor, as are
necessary to ensure the effective implementation of this ordinance.
Absence of the Implementing Rules and Regulations (IRR) of this Ordinance shall not
preclude the enforcement of the provisions of this Ordinance.
ARTICLE V. TRANSITORY PROVISIONS
SECTION 24. FUNDING.- An amount of Five Million Pesos (P5,000,000.00) shall be
appropriated by the City Government of Davao in its Annual Budget or in any supplemental
budget as the case may be, to carry out the purposes of this ordinance.

Ord. No. 0489-24
SECTION 25. REPEALING CLAUSE.- Any Ordinance, local issuances, or rules
inconsistent with the provisions of this Ordinance are hereby repealed or modified,
accordingly.
In this regard, Ordinance No. 004-13, SERIES of 2013, and Ordinance No. 0410-18,
SERIES of 2018, are hereby repealed.
SECTION 26. SEPARABILITY CIAUSE.- If, for any reason, any SECTION of this
Ordinance is declared unconstitutional or invalid, the other sections or provisions hereof
which are not affected thereby, shall continue to be in full force and effect.
sEcTIoN27.@-Thisordinanceshalltakeeffect15days
upon approval, posting, and publication in a newspaper of local circulation.
ENACTED, May 07, 2024, by a unanimous vote of all the Members of the
Sanggunian, there being a quorum.
CERTIFIED CORRECT:
^ At*; t. lL,{
CHARITO N: SANTOS
Secretary to the Sanggufriang Panlungsod
(City Government Department Head II)r,
ATTESTED:
City C-ouncilor
Temporary Presiding Officer
cns/sr
l,,lAY 3 I 202{
APPROVE
2024
zZ" DUTERTE
v
*ur?,
ATTESTED:
ATTY.
H. LAYOG
Acting
istrator
AN ORDINANCE ENHANCING DGSTING ORDINANCES REI.ATING TO UQUOR AND SOBRIETY,
REGUI.ATING THE CONSUMMON, DISTRIBUTION, SALE AND SUPPLY OF UQUO& AND OTHER
ALCOHOUC BEVERAGES, REPEALING FOR THIS PURPOSE ORDINANCE NO. 004-13, SERIES OF 2013,
ofiERWISE KNOWN AS THE "LIQUOR BAN ORDINANCE" AND ORDINANCE NO. 0410-18, SERIES OF
2018, OTHERWISE KNOWN AS YHE SOBRIETY ORDINANCE OF DAVAO CTTY'