i
Offrce of the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod
20ilr City Council
45th Regular Session
SERIES of 2024
PRESENT:
Vice Mayor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
J. Melchor B. Quitain Jr.
Marissa S. Abella
Nilo M. Abellera Jr.
Luna Maria Dominique S. Acosta
Bai Hundra Cassandra Dominique N. Advincuta
Bernard E. Al-ag
Dante L. Apostol Sr.
Conrado C. Baluran
Jessica M. Bonguyan
Louie John J. Bonguyan
Pilar C. Braga
Augusto Javier G. Campos III
Jonard C. Dayap
January N. Duterte
Edgar P. Ibuyan Jr.
Diosdado Angelo Junior R. Mahipus
Rodolfo M. Mande
Bonz Andre A. Militar
Temujin B. Ocampo
Myrna G. L'Dalodo-Oftiz
Alberto T. Ungab
Lorenzo Benjamin D. Villafuerte
Trisha Ann J. Villafuerte
Jesus Joseph P. Zozobrado III
Wilbefto E. Al-ag
A! Ryan S. Alejandre
Richlyn N. Justol-Baguilod
Kristine May John Abdul Mercado
- Presiding Officer
- On Vacation Leave
- On Official Business
- On Sick Leave
- On Sick Leave
ABSENT:
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
ORDINANCE NO. O7O7.24
SERIES of 2024
AN ORDIilAilCE AMENDING CITY ORDINANCE NO. (Fd-Oz,
SERTES OF 2002, AS AMENDED By CITY ORDTNANCE NO.
o679-L9r SERIES OF 2019, PROMULGATTNG POLICIES AND
MEASURES FOR THE PREVENTION, TREATMENT, CARE AND
suppoRT oF sTI, HMND AIDS rN DAVAO CITY,
STREilGTHENING THE DAVAO CITY AIDS COUNCIL,
APPROPRIATIilG FUNDS THEREFO& AND PROVIDIilG
PENALTIES FOR VIOLATIONS THEREOF AND FOR OTHER
PURPOSES

' '
Pagelofz4
Ord. Nq. 0707-24
Be it ordained'by the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod of Davao City in session assembled,
that:
Article I. Title of the Ordinance
SECTIOil 1. SHORT TITLE. This Ordinance shall be known as the "DAVAO
CITY COMPREHENSM STI, HMND AIDS ORDIr{ANCE OF 2024.',
Afticle II. Declaration of Policy
SECTION 1. Sexually Transmitted Infections, Human Immunodeficienry Virus and
Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome (STIs, HIV and AIDS) are public health concerns
that have wide ranging social, political and economic repercussions, as such:
1. The City of Davao shall establish policies and programs to prevent the spread
of STI, HIV and AIDS and deliver treatment, care and support seruices to
persons living with HIV (PLHIV) and those with Sexually Transmitted Infections
(5[s) in accordance with evidence-based strategies and approaches that
follow the principles of human rights, gender equality, and meaningful
pafticipation of communities affected by the epidemic;
2. The City Government of Davao shall adopt a multi-sectoral and culturallysensitive approach in responding to the STI, HIV and AIDS epidemic by
ensuring that local communities, civil society groups, and persons living with
HIV and their families are paft of the response to the epidemic;
3. The City Government of Davao shall ensure that STIs, HIV and AlDS-related
services are accessible, available, affordable, and acceptable to those who need
them. It shall also implement policies, programs, projects and activities that
will contribute to eliminating stigma and discrimination;
4. The City Government of Davao shall consciously adhere to generally-accepted
principles of human rights and adopt gender perspectives in dealing with STIs,
HIV and AIDS, as it shall employ scientifically-proven approaches in its
information and education campaigns;
Further, the City of Davao affirms that:
1. The protection, promotion and fulfillment of human rights as the cornerstone
of an effective response to the epidemic;
2. The meaningful inclusion and participation of persons directly and indirectly
affected by the epidemic, especially persons living with HIV is crucial in
eliminating the virus;
3. Unless otherwise provided in this Ordinance, the confidentiality, anonymity and
non-compulsory nature of HIV testing and HlV-related testing shall always be
guaranteed and protected by the City Government of Davao; and
4. Policies and practices that discriminate on the basis of perceived or actual HIV
status, sex, gender, sexual orientation, gender identity, age, economic status,
ethnicity and disability are inimical to national interest and contrary to the rights
and freedoms guaranteed in the Constitution, and the City Government of
Davao shall eliminate these acts of discrimination.

Page 3 of24
Ord. No.'0707-24
Afticle III. Definition of Terms
sEcTIoN1..Asusedinthisordinance,thefullowing
terms are defined as follows:
a. Acquired Immunodeficienry Syndrome (AIDS) refers to a health condition where
there is a deficiency of the immune system that stems from infection with the
Human Immunodeficiency Virus or HIV, making an individua! susceptible to
oppoftunistic infections;
b. Antiretrouiral Therapy (ARI) refers to the treatment that stops or suppresses
viral replication or replications of a retrovirus like HIV, thereby slowing down the
progression of infection;
c. Bullying refer to any severe or repeated use by one or more persons of a written,
verbal or electronic expression, or a physical act of gesture, or any combination
thereof, directed at another person that has the effect of actually causing or
placing the latter in reasonable fear of physical or emotional harm or damage to
one's property; creating a hostile environment for the other person; infringing
on the rights of another person; or materially and substantially disrupting the
processes or orderly operation of an institution or organization;
d. Children - refer to persons below 18 years of age or those over but are unable
to fully take care of themselves or protect themselves from abuse, neglect,
cruelty, exploitation or discrimination because of physical or mental disability or
condition;
e. Civil Society Organizations (CSOs) refer to groups of non-governmental and
non-commercial individuals or legal entities that are engaged in non-coerced
collective action around shared interests, purpose and values;
t. Combination prevention is defined as the combination of HIV prevention as
rights-, evidence-, and community-based programs that promote a combination
of biomedical, behavioral, and structural interventions designed to meet the HIV
prevention needs of specific people and communities;
g. Community-Based Research refers to study undertaken in community settings,
which involve community members in the design and implementation of research
pOects;
h. Community-led Monitoring is a process of collecting community feedback on the
quality, accessibility, availability, and acceptability of seruices that will be stored,
analped, and utilized for service improvement and advocacy for better programs
and policies; collects experiences of stigma and discrimination, and other human
rights violations; a tool that can contribute to the accountability of government
and NGO stakeholders;
i. Comprehensive Health Interuention for Key Populations refers to evidence-based
policies, programs, and approaches that aim to reduce transmission of HIV and
its harmful consequences on health, social relations and economic conditions;
j. Community-based HIV Screening - refers to a non-laboratory rapid screening
procedure done outside a health facility by a trained member of communitybased organizations or groups;

Page 4 of24
Ord. t!o. 0707-24
k. Compulsory HIV Testingrefers to HIV testing imposed upon an individual
characterized by lack of consent, use of force or intimidation, the use of testing
as a prerequisite for employment or other purposes, and other circumstances
when informed choice is absent;
l. Discrimination refers to unfair or unjust treatment that distinguishes, excludes,
restricts, or shows preferences based on any ground, such as su, gender, age,
sexual orientation, gender identity and expression, economic status, disability,
ethnicity, and HIV status, whether actual or perceived, and which has the
purpose or effect of nulliffing or impairing the recognition, enjoyment or exercise
by al! persons similarly situated, of all their rights and freedoms;
m. Entertainment Establishments - are business establishments which include bars,
nightclubs, beerhouses, karaoke bars/sing-along pub houses and other simitar
establishments within Davao City;
n. Ethics of Care - Healthcare provider embraces the universal values of liberty,
justice, confidentiality, respect, gender equity and equality to clients;
o. Evoluing Capacities of the Child refersto the concept enshrined in Afticle 5 of the
Convention on the Rights of the Child recognizing the developmenta! changes
and the corresponding progress in cognitive abilities and capacity for
self-determination undergone by children as they grow up, thus requiring parents
and others charged with the responsibility for the child to provide varying
degrees of protection, and to allow their participation in opportunities for
autonomous decision-making;
p. Faith-based Organization - refers to a group of individuals united on the basis of
their religious and or spiritual belieB;
q. Gender Expression refers to the way a person communicates gender identity to
others through behavior, clothing, hairstyles, communication or speech pattern,
or body characteristics;
r. Gender ldentity refers to the personal sense of identity as characterized, among
others, by manner of clothing, inclinations, and behavior in relation to masculine
or feminine conventions. A person may have a male or female identity with the
physiological characteristics of the opposite sex;
s. Health Ceftificate - is a written certification in the prescribed form issued by the
City Health Officer stating that the person applying for or renewing such
certificate, is permitted by the said Officer or his/her duly authorized
representative to work in an establishment. This ceftification is issued to the
person applying for or renewing such, after undergoing/submitting proof of
physical and medical examinations, immunizations and other examinations as
may be required by the City Health Officer or his/her duly authorized
representative;
t. Health Education, Promotion - refers to the conduct of information, education
and promotion campaign and training on Reproductive Health, ffi, HIV and
AIDS and other related activities;

Page 5 of24
Ord. No. 0707-24
u. Health Maintenance Organizations (HMo)refers to juridical entities legally
organized to provide or arrange for the provision of pre-agreed or designated
health care services to its enrolled members for a fixed prepaid fee for a specified
period of time;
v. High-risk fuhaviorrefers to a person's involvement in ceftain activities that
increase the risk of transmitting or acquiring HIV;
w. Human Immunodeficienq Virus (HIV) refers to the virus, of the type called
retrovirus, which infects cells of the human immune system, and destroys or
impairs the cells' function. Infection with HIV results in the progressive
deterioration of the immune system, leading to immune deficiency;
x. HIV Counseling refers to the interpersonal and dynamic communication process
between a client and a trained counselor, who is bound by a Code of Ethics and
practice to resolve personal, social, or psychological problems and difficulties,
and whose objective in counseling in the context of an HIV diagnosis is to
encourage the client to explore impoftant personal issues, identiff ways of coping
with anxiety and stress, plan for the future (keeping healthy, the context of a
negative HIV test result, to encourage the client to explore motivations, options,
and skills to stay HlV-negative;
y. HIV and AIDS Counselor - refers to any individual trained by an institution or
organization accredited by the Depaftment of Health (DOH) to provide
counseling seruices on HIV and AIDS with emphasis on behavior modification;
z. HIV and AIDS Monitoring refers to the documentation and analysis of the number
of HIV and AIDS infections and the pattern of its spread;
aa. HlV-Negative refers to the absence of HIV or HIV antibodies upon HIV testing;
bb. HlV-Positiverefers to the presence of HIV infection as documented by the
presence of HIV and HIV antibodies in the sample being tested;
cc. HIV Self-Screening - refers to the method that requires the person to collect his
or her own specimen (oral fluid or blood) after which performs an HIV test using
self-test kits, interpreting the result often in a private setting, either atone or with
a trusted companion.
dd. HIV Testingrefers to any facility-based, mobile medical procedure, or
community-based screening modalities that are conducted to determine the
presence or absence of HIV in a person's body. HIV testing is confidential,
voluntary in nature and must be accompanied by counseling prior to and after
the testing, and conducted only with the informed consent of the person;
ee. HU-related Testing refers to any laboratory testing or procedure done on an
individual in relation to a person's HIV condition;
ff . HWTesting Facilityrefers to any DOH accredited on-site or mobite testing center,
hospital, clinic, laboratory and other facility that has the capacity to conduct
voluntary HIV counseling and HIV testing;
gg. HW Transmission refers to the transfer of HIV from one infected person to an
uninfected individual, through unprotected sexual intercourse, blood transfttsion,
sharing of contaminated intravenous needles, or which may occur during
pregnancy, delivery, and breastfeeding;

Page 6 of24
Ord. No. 0707-24
hh. Information Material - shall mean any written and/or printed material which
educates the public;
ii. Informed Consentrefers to the voluntary agreement of a percon to undergo or
be subjected to a procedure based on full information, whether such permission
is written or conveyed verbally;
jj. Key Affected Populations refer to those groups or persons at higher risk of HIV
exposure, or affected populations whose behavior make them likely to be
exposed to HIV or to transmit the virus;
kk. Laboratoryrefers to an area or place, including community-based settings,
where research studies are being undeftaken to develop local evidence for
effective HIV response;
11. Mature Minor Doctrine refers to the legal principle that recognizes the capacity
of some minors to consent independently to medical procedures, if they have
been assessed by qualified health professionals to understand the nature of
procedures and their consequences to make a decision on their own;
mm. Medical Confidentialityrefers to the core duty of medical practice where the
information provided by the patient to health practitioner and his/her health
status is kept private and is not divulged to third parties. The patient's health
status can however, be shared with other medical practitioners involved in the
professional care of the patient, who wil! also be bound by medical
confidentiality. Medical confidentiality applies to the attending physician,
consulting medical specialist, nurse, medical technologist and all other health
workers or perconnel involved in any counseling, testing or professional care of
the patient. It also applies to any person who, in any official capacity, has
acquired or may have acquired such confidential information;
nn. Medical Practitioner - licensed Doctor of Medicine engaged in health work in
hospitals, clinics, sanitaria, health stations, barangay health centers and the Iike;
oo. Non-health (social determinants of health) refers to non-medical factors that
influence health outcomes; these are the conditions in which people are born,
grow, wor( live, and age, and the wider set of forces and systems shaping the
conditions of daily life. These forces and systems include economic policies and
systems, development agendas, social norms, social policies, and political
systems;
pp. Opportunistic infections refer to illnesses caused by various organism, many of
which do not cause diseases in persons with healthy immune system;
qq. Partner Notification refers to the process by which the "index client", "source",
or "patient" who has a Sexually Transmitted Infection (Sil) including HIV, is
given suppoft in order to notiff and advise the paftners that have been exposed
to infection. Support includes giving the index client a mechanism to encourage
the client's partner to attend counseling, testing and other prevention and
treatment seruices. Confidentiality shall be obserued in the entire process;
rr. Peer Educator - is a trained STI, HIV and AIDS educator who is capable of
influencing, motivating and developing healthy behaviors among his/her peers;

PageT of 24
Ord. No. 0707-24
ss. Percon Living with HIV (PLHIV) refers to any individual diagnosed to be infected
with HIV;
tt. Pre-exposure Prophylaxis refers to the use of prescription drugs as a strategy for
the prevention of HIV infection by people who do not have the HIV and AIDS. It
is an optional treatment which may be taken by people who are HlV-negative
but who have substantial, higher-than-average risk of contracting an HIV
infection;
uu. Pre-test Counselingrefers to the process of providing an individual with
information on the biomedical aspects of HIV, AIDS, and emotional support to
any psychological implications of undergoing HIV testing and the test result itself
before the individual is subjected to the test;
w. Post-expsure Prophylaxisrefers to a preventive medical treatment stafted
immediately after exposure to pathogen (HIV) in order to prevent infection by
the pathogen and the development of the disease;
ww. Post-test Counseling refers to the process of providing risk-reduction information
and emotional support to a person who submitted to HIV testing at the time the
result is released;
)o(. Prophylactic refers to any agent or device used to prevent the transmission of
an infection;
W. Provider-initiated Counseling and Testingrefers to a health care provider
initiating HIV testing to a person practicing high-risk behavior or vulnerable to
HIV after conducting HIV pre-test counseling. A person may elect to decline or
defer testing such that consent is conditional;
zz. Quality Health Care - as indicated in the standards set by the World Health
Organization (WHO), accessibility and affordability of medical needs, ethical care,
and appropriateness of provider's knowledge on STI, HIV and AIDS, sexual and
reproductive health and rights, gender sensitive in their interpersonal relations
with patients and adept diagnostic treatment and follow-up procedure of health
providers;
aaa. Redressrefers to an act of compensation for unfairness, grievance, and
reparation;
bbb. Reproductive Health - It is a state of complete physical, mental, and social
well-being and not merely the absence of disease and infirmity in all matters
relating to the reproductive system and its functions and processes. It implies
that people are able to have satisffing and safe sex lives and they have the
capability to reproduce and freedom to decide if, when and how often to do so
as defined in the Cairo International Conference on Population and Development
(CICPD) and World Health Organization (WHO);
ccc. Reproductive Health and Wellness Center (RHWC) - A primary healthcare facility
under the local government of the City of Davao that serves at the forefront of
STI, HIV and AIDS prevention, treaUnent, care and suppoft. Its purpose is to
achieve universal availability, affordability, accessibility of reproductive health
care services;

Page 8 of24
Ord. No. 0707-24
ddd. Safer Sex Practices refer to choices made and behaviors adopted by a person to
reduce or minimize the risk of HIV transmission. These may include postponing
sexual debut, non-penetrative sex, coffect and consistent use of male or female
condoms, and reducing the number of sexual partners;
eee. Sexual Health implies that the sexua! drive and sexuat processes are
accomplished in a state of complete physical, mental and social being, not merely
the absence of disease or disorder;
trf . *xually Transmitted Infections (STIs) refer to infections that are spread through
the transfer of organisms from one person to another as a result of sexual
contact;
999. Sexual Orientation refers to the direction of emotional, sexual attraction, or
conduct towards people of the same sex (homosexual orientation) or towards
people of both sexes (bisexual orientation) or towards people of the opposite sex
(heterosexual orientation) or to the absence of sexual attraction (asexual
orientation);
hhh. Social Protection refers to a set of policies and programs designed to reduce
poverty and vulnerability by promoting efficient labor markets, diminishing
people's exposure to risks, and enhancing their capacity to protect themsefuel
against hazards, and interruptions on, or loss of income;
iii. Standard Precautions - are work practices required to reduce the risk of
transmission of blood-borne and other pathogens from both recognized and
unrecognized sources to protect the health care worker and ctient;
iii. STI, HIV and AIDS Workplace Policies - refer to the statement of provisions of
work and health benefits and rights for workers/employees;
kkk. Stigma refers to the dynamic devaluation and dehumanization of an individual in
the eyes of otherc, which may be based on attributes that are arbitrarily defined
by others as discreditable or unworthy, and which results in discrimination when
acted upon;
ilt.
mmm.
nnn.
ooo.
Treabnent hubs refer to private and public hospitals or medical establishments
accredited by DOH to have the capacity and facility to provide treatment and
care seruices to PLHIV;
Voluntary HIV testing refers to HIV testing done on an individuat who, after
having undergone pre-test counseling, willingry submits to such test;
Vulnerable Communities - refer to the communities and groups suffering from
vulnerabilities, such as unequal opportunities, social exclusion, poverty,
unemployment and other similar social economic, cultural and politicii
conditions making them more susceptible to fi, HIV and AIDS; (RA 11166)
Workplace - refers to the office premises and work site where workerc are
habitually employed and shall include the office or place where workers, with no
fixed or definite work site, regularly report for assignment in the course of their
employment;

Page 9 of24
ord. trlp. 0707-24
Afticle IV. The Davao City AIDS Council (DCAC), the DCAC
Secretaria!, and the City Health Office - Reproductive Health and
Wellness Center
SECTION l. The Davao City AIDS Council (DCAC) shall be created through an
Executive Order issued by the City Mayor.
The Council shall be the Lead, Oversight, Advisory, Coordinative, and Monitoring
and Evaluation Body of the City's STI, HIV, and AIDS and related policies, plans,
programs, and activities.
SECTION 2. The DCAC shall have the following powerc and functions:
a. Lead in ensuring and coordinating the crafting, operationalization, and
implementation of the City's strategic, medium-term, operational, investment,
and other plans, programs, and policies related to STI, HIV, and AIDS;
b. Recommend measures to the Local Health Board (LHB), City Development
Council, City Mayor and SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod in adopting, formulating,
developing, reviewing, and updating of policies, plans, or programs towards
achieving the City's STI, HIV, and AIDS targets;
c. Oversee the coordination and undertaking of STI, HIV, and AIDS prevention
programs, including information, education, and communication; research;
provision of screening, testing, and counselling; as well as ensuring provision
of health and other support seruices;
d. Lead the monitoring, assessment, and evaluation of the operationalization and
implementation of this Ordinance and the policies, plans, and programs relative
thereto; the City's implementation of its mandates as set in the national policies
and international commitments including the Philippine HIV and AIDS Policy
Act, the AIDS Medium Term Plan, among others; and/or compliance,
operationalization, and/or actions of local bodies with this Council's policies,
resolutions, and recommendations;
e. Coordinate the establishment, mobilization, and strengthening of local, national
and international linkages with stakeholders involved in STI, HIV, and AIDS
response;
t. By itself, through its Chairperson or any of its authorized members, partner or
engage with, or secure assistance or seruices of public, private,
non-government/civil society organizations in pursuit of its mandates, subject
to existing laws and regulations;
g. Consistent with the structure provided in this Ordinance, adopt its operational
and functional structure, form committees and subcommittees, working
groups, define respective roles and responsibilities in fuftherance of its
mandates;
h. Oversee the reconstitution of the DCAC Secretariat, its staffing pattern, and its
operations, through its Chairperson, or its duly authorized Officer or Member;
i. Propose budget for its operations and that of its Seretariat;

Page 10 of24
Ord. No. 0707-24
j. Adopt its own rules, resolutions, and recommendations in furtherance of the
above powers and functions.
SECTION 3. COMPOSITION OF THE DAVAO CITY AIDS COUNCIL (DCAC).
To realize the above mandates, the Davao City AIDS Council shal! be composed of
the following:
Chairperson
Vice Chair
Members
the City Mayor or his/her duly Authorized Representative
Chairperson, SP Committee on Health
City Health Officer
City Social Welfare and Development Officer
Department of Education Davao City Schoots Division
Superintendent
Davao City Liga ng mga Barangay President
Integrated Gender and Development Officer
City Information Officer
City Director of the DILG
SANGGUNIANG Kabataan Federation President
Depaftment of Health Representative
Davao City Muslim Affairs Officer
DCAC Head Secretariat
Secretariat: There shall be a secretariat which shal! be composed of the following:
1. Reproductive Health and Wellness Center Head physician
2. Superuising Nurse
3. Two (2) Administrative Staff
The above-mentioned members shall have an alternate representative in the
activities of DCAC, during their absence.
A. There shall be Ten (10) CSO Representatives, in accordance with the
DILG requirements, coming from the following groups:
o 1 LGBTQI+ Organization
o 1 Faith-based Organization
o 2 PLHIV Organization
o 1 Indigenous Peoples Organization (as endorsed by the City Mayor's OfficeCity Cultural Minority Office)
o l Young Key Population Organization (yKp)
o 1 Organization of or seruing Persons with Disability (PWD) the vulnerable
communities
o 1 CSO seruing women and children or working on health of these
communities
o 1 CSO seruing (key population) LGBTQI, PLHIVs and working on health of
the key populations
o 1 Academe - A higher learning institution that conducts research and
development and a committed paftner in Policy Advocacy and service
provision to the key population and the pLHIV in Davao Region;
B. Criteria and Guidelines in the Selection of CSO and the Academe as
AIDS Council Member.
1. The CSO must be an NGO or PO acoedited by the LGU;

Page '11 of 24
Ord. No. 0707-24
2. The CSO must have the commitment to HIV and AIDS advocary,
prevention and psychosocial care to KP and the PLHIV;
3. The CSO must have shown a track record of implementing a project on
prevention, treatment and support;
4. The Academe, must have a program on HIV and AIDS and related
research (for the prospective Academe member);
C. CSO Autonomy, Selection, and Representation - The DCAC shall respect
and ensure CSO autonomy in selecting their respective representatives to the Council.
The CSOs must develop their own process of selecting their representative to the City
AIDS Council. The CSO Representative shall conform to the guidelines set by DILG and
the LGU. The CSOs shall also have an alternate representative in the activities of the
DCAC, during the absence of their permanent representative.
D. Terms of Office of CSO Member to the AIDS Council - The CSO member
of the AIDS Council shall serve as a council member for at least 3 terms. Each term is
equivalent to a three-year period. Membership to the AIDS Council shall be done with
formal application and endorsement from the Sector they represent. Applications shall be
done every after one term of service.
SECTION 4. MEETINGS OF THE AIDS COUNCIT .
The DCAC shall regularly convene quafterly for the conduct of its affairs. There shall
be two meetings of the DCAC which shall be held in Plenary, while the other two (2)
meetings shal! be held by the respective committees or working groups.
The AIDS Council may convene a special meeting upon the call of the Chair or the
co-chair or upon request of at least the majority number of its members.
Except when in Executive Session, or when authorized by !aw, the DCAC Meetings
shall be open to the public. The DCAC may likewise invite institutions, organizations, civil
societies and agencies in its meetings for them to serue as resource persons or when
their pafticipation is deemed relevant and necessary.
SECTION 5. SECRETARIAT OF THE DAVAO CITY AIDS COUNCIT AND ITS
FUNCTIONS.
Sufficient personnel shal! be assigned and constituted as Secretariat of the DCAC
and shall peform the following functions:
1. Assist and provide technical and administrative support to the DCAC, its Chair,
the Co-Chair, its Members, and the respective leads of Committees,
Sub-Committees or Working Groups in the performance of their functions;
2. Serue as the communication center of the DCAC;
3. Serve as custodian of records and repository of all data and information
pertaining to the city's response to srl, HIV, and AIDS, the DCAC, and the
DcAc operations - including meetings, activities, programs, projects, among
others; and
4. Peform other secretariat functions as may be assigned by the Chairperson of
the Council or authorized officers;

Page 12 of24
Ord: No. 0707-24
SECTION 6. The City Health Office - Reproductive Health and Wellness
Center (CHO-RHWC) shall be the City's frontline provider and primary facility for
delivery of comprehensive reproductive health including SFI, HIV, AIDS serices, such as
diagnostic testing, treatment, care, and support.
The CHO-RHWC shall provide reports and updates of the City's STI, HIV and AIDS
trends, responses, services, and treatments to the DCAC, the CHO-CESU, and the general
public.
To strengthen the CHO-RHWC and enable it to accomplish its mandates herein set
fotth, the City Government shall provide the CHO-RHWC adequate personnel, facilities,
and sufficient and responsive budget.
Afticle V, STf, HIV and AIDS Prevention
SECTION 1. STL HMND AIDS PREVENTION - The City Government of
Davao, through the Davao City AIDS Council (DCAC), shall promote and adopt a range
of measures and interuentions in paftnership with civil society organizations and other
government agencies that aims to prevent, halt or control the spread of STI, HIV and
AIDS in the general population, especially among key populations and vulnerable
communities.
SECTION 2.
- The DCAC shal!
conduct whole year-round activities on STI, HIV and AIDS Awareness Campaign which
officially stafts in January, highlighting the month of May, the International AIDS
Candlelight Memorial and Mobilization (IACMM) and the month of December being the
World AIDS Day prevention month and the conduct of an annual HIV summit.
SECTION 3. STL HMND AIDS PREVENTION PROGRAM - The HIV and
AIDS Education and Prevention programs shall be age-appropriate, culture-sensitive,
gender-responsive and based on up-to-date evidence and scientific sffategies, and shall
actively promote:
(a) Safer sex practices among the general population, including sexual abstinence,
sexual fidelity, and consistent and correct condom use especially among key
populations;
(b) Other practices that reduce risk of HIV infection;
(c) Universal awareness of and access to evidence-based and relevant information
and education, and medically safe, legally affordable, effective, and quality
treatmenQ and
(d) Knowledge of the health, civil, political, economic, and social rights of PLHIV
and their families.
The CHO-RHWC, based on up-to-date evidence, scientific sffiategies, technologies,
and/or interuentions, shall procure, distribute, and monitor the usage of a range of
biomedical interuentions for the prevention and control of STI, HIV, and AIDS, including
condoms and lubricants, pre- and post- exposure prophylaxis, medicines, and other
prevention and treatment commodities, ensure sufficiency and accessibility of the same
in government and/or private facilities as informed by local situation among the general
and key affected populations, including children born of PLHIV mothers, sex workers /
people in prostitution, and indigent MSM, among others.

I
,Ord. Nor0707-24
SECTION 4. COMPREHENSIVE STI, HIV AND AIDS EDUCATIONComprehensive education and information strategies shall be designed, integrated and
adopted in various levels geared towards the purpose of providing substantial
information/knowledge, improving attitudes and skills in the prevention and control of
STI, HIV and AIDS, in both public and private spheres.
SECTION 5. STT, HIV AND AIDS INFORMATIOI{ AS A HEATTH SERVICEThe STI, HIV and AIDS education and information dissemination shall form part of the
delivery of health services practitioners, workerc and personnel. The knowledge and
capabilities of all public health workers shall be enhanced to include skills for proper
information dissemination and education on STI, HIV and AIDS. It shall likewise be
considered a civic duty of health providers in the private sector to make available to the
public such information necessary to control the spread of STI, HIV and AIDS and to
correct common misconceptions and other related ethical issues such as confidentiality,
informed consent and the duty to provide treatment.
SECTION 6. STI, HIV AND AIDS EDUCATIOIT FOR KEY POPUIATIONS
AND VULNERABLE COMMUNITIES - The DCAC, through the City Health Office (CHO)
- Health Promotion Unit (HPU), in collaboration with the Liga ng mga Barangay, Civil
Society Organizations and other government agencies, shall support and ensure STI, HIV
and AIDS education programs such as peer education and outreach activities, and
community-based screening services to reach target key populations and vulnerable
communities.
SECTION 7. STI, HIV AND AIDS GENDER AND CULTURALLY SENSITIVE
IEC MATERIALS AND EDUCATION MODUTES - Information, Education and
Communication (IEC) materials shall be designed appropriate to the needs and culture of
groups being targeted in the campaign. Literatures on STI, HIV and AIDS shall utilize the
Iocal language to encourage and facilitate easy understanding of terms and concepts.
Proper consultations shall be held among heads, leaders and representatives of respective
groups, organizations, institutions and individuals who are targets for application of any
course content, scope and methodology.
SECTION 8. AGE.APPROPRIATE STI, HIV AND AIDS EDUCATION IN
SCHOOLS - The DCAC, through CHGHPU, shal! coordinate with the relevant City
Depaftments or Offices and the Department of Education (DepEd), Commission on Higher
Education (CHED), and the Technical Education Skills and Development Authority
(TESDA) to integrate basic and age-appropriate and culturally sensitive instruction on the
causes, modes of transmission and ways of preventing the spread of HIV and other
Sexually Transmitted infections in subjects taught in public and private schools, including
formal and indigenous learning systems.
SECTION 9. STI, HIV AND AIDS EDUCATION IN THE WORKPLACE . ThC
DCAC, through the CHO- HPU, in coordination with the relevant City Depaftments or
Offices and the Department of Labor and Employment (DOLE) and the Civil Service
Commission (CSC) shall provide standard basic Information and Instruction on STI, HIV
and AIDS, national and local HIV related laws and other related issues of stigma reduction
and discrimination in the workplace, public and private, including the Armed Forces of
the Philippines (AFP) and the Philippine National Police (PNP).
SECTION 10. COMPULSORY STL HMND AIDS EDUCATION - It shall be
compulsory for al! owne6 and/or managers of all establishments to attend seminar on
STI, HIV and AIDS prevention conducted regularly by any of the agencies such as the
CHO, DCAC, and accredited Civil Society Organizations (CSOs), otherwise, no renewal of
permit to operate shall be granted to said establishments for violation thereof.

Page 14 ctf 24
Ord. No. 0707-24
A Ceftificate of Attendance to STI, HIV and AIDS Seminar shall form paft of the
requirements for the issuance or renewal of Health Certificate and Permit to Ciperate.
SECTION 11. STI, HIV ANP AIDS EDUCATION FOR OVERSEAS FILIPINO
WORKERS - The DCAC, through the CSWDO-Office of tfr
Families Welfare and Crisis Center, shall coordinate with the relevant City Departments
or Offices and its attached agencies, the Department of Migrant Workers qriuWy and
Overseas Workers Welfare Administration (OWWA), to ensure that all overceas fllipino
workers shall be provided with information on STI, HIV and AIDS and how to access onsite the related seryices and facilities before certification of overceas assignment.
sEcrroN 12. srr,, Hrv AND AIDS EDUCATION IN COMMUNITIES - The
gHO, through the .HPU, the Liga ng mga earingayJfie Barangay Council for the
Protection of Children (BCPC), the SANGGUNIANG Kabataan and btner CSOs shall
spearhead Education and Information Activities for public awareness campaigns on STI,
HIV and AIDS through various channels on evidence-based, gender seniitive, ageappropriate, culturally sensitive and human rights- oriented prevention tools to stbp [ne
spread of STI and HIV.
sEcTroN 13. Srr, Hrv AND ArDS EDUCATTON AMONG OUT-OF- SCHOOL
YQUTH (OSY) - fie CHO, through the HpU anO City
Offi99 (CSWDO), CSOs and other accredited agencies, shall provide trainings or seminars
on STI, HIV and AIDS and other related issues on Adolescent Reproductive Health (ARH)
to all OSY and young people in coordination with SANGGUNIANG (abataan (SK) officials in
the Barangay. For this purpose, SK shall integrate and [rovide-budget for STI and HIV in
their plans, programs and activities
SECTION 14. STI, HIV AND AIDS EDUCATION FOR TOURISTS AND
TRANSIENTS - The CHO-HPU, CIO and City Tourism Offic
Education and provide IEC materials on the cause, modes of transmission, prevention
and consequences of STI and HIV Infection and list of STI, HIV testing facilities which
shall be adequately provided at all domestic and international ports of eirtry and exit.
SECTION 15.
- The CHOHPU, RHWC and other accredited CSOs, in coordination with the relevant City
Depaftments or Offices and the Bureau of Corrections, Bureau of Jail Management and
Penology, Depaftment of Social Welfare and Development or such proper authorities,
shall ensure that all prisons, public and private rehabilitation centers, and other closedsetting institutions shall have comprehensive STI, HIV and AIDS prevention, treatment,
care and suppoft program.
sEcrroil 16. COMpUtSORy STr. Hrv AND ArDS EDUmTTON FOR
MARRIAGE APPLICANTS - The CHO, through tne
with CSWDO and IGDD and other implementing agencies, shall integrate STI, HIV and
AIDS and gender sensitivity education among marriage applicants. -
sEcTroN 17. ilEDrA CAMP4TGN ON STr, Hrv ANp ArDs PREVENTTON -
ThecIo,inpartnershipwithcHo-HPUincffivariousmedia
organizations, shall implement a media and communications plan including fi, HIV and
AIDS education among media practitioners and regular information dissemination
campaign and advocacy.

Page 15 of24
Ord. No. 0707-24
SECTION 18. STI, HIV AND AIDS PREVENTION OF MOTHER-TO.CHILD
TRANSMISSION - The CHO shall integrate STI and HIV Prevention of Mother to Child
Transmission (PMTCT) in its maternal and child health services.
SECTION 19. STI, HIV AND AIDS PREVENTION OF BLOOD RELATED
TRANSMISSION - The CHO, in coordination with the DOH Blood Program, PRC,
Hospitals, Clinics and Laboratories, shall adopt and implement the guidelines and other
existing ordinances on blood, tissue or organ donation.
SECTION 20. STANDARD PRECAUTION - All Health Care Providers
implementing STI and HIV programs shall adopt standard precautions according to the
existing DOH guidelines.
Afticle VI. Screening, Testing and Counseling
SECTION 1. As a policy, the City Government of Davao, through the DCAC, shall
encourage voluntary HIV testing. Written consent from the person taking the test must
be obtained before taking the test.
HIV testing must be made available under the following circumstances:
a. In keeping with the principle of the evolving capacities of the child as defined in
SECTION 3 (i) of this Act. If the person is fifteen (15) to below eighteen (18) years
of age, consent to voluntary HIV testing shall be obtained from the child without
the need of consent from a parent or guardian;
b. In keeping with the mature minor doctrine as defined in SECTION 3 (mm) of this
Act, any young person aged below fifteen (15) who is pregnant or engaged in
high-risk behavior shall be eligible for HIV testing and counseling, with the
assistance of a licensed social worker or health worker. Consent to voluntary HIV
testing shall be obtained from the child without the need of consent from a parent
or guardian;
c. In all other cases not covered by (b) of this SECTION, consent to voluntary HIV
testing shall be obtained from the child's parents or legal guardian if the person is
below fifteen (15) years of age or is mentally incapacitated. In cases when the
child's parents or legal guardian cannot be located despite reasonable effofts, or
if the child's parents or legal guardian refused to give consent, it shal! be obtained
from the licensed social worker or health worker. To protect the best interest of
the child, the assent of the minor shall also be required prior to the testing.
In every circumstance, proper counseling shall be conducted by the social worker,
a health care provider, or other health care professional accredited by DOH or DSWD.
HIV testing guidelines issued by DOH shal! include guidance for testing minors and
for the involvement of parents or guardians in HIV testing for minors.
The City Government of Davao, through the DCAC, shall comply with and
continually review and revise as appropriate, the HIV diagnostic algorithm based on
national regulations and current available laboratory technology and evidence.
SECTION 2.
- Compulsory HIV Testing shall be
allowed only in the following instances:

'Page L6of24
Ord. No. 0707-24
a. When it is necessary to test a person who is charged with any of the offenses
punishable under Afticles 264 and 266 on se,rious and slight physical injuries, and
Afticles 335 and 338 on rape and simple seduction, both of Republic Act No. 3815,
or the "Revised Penal Code", as amended, and as also amended by Republic Act
No. 8353, otherwise known as the "Anti-Rapr: Law of t997";
b. When it is necessary to resolve relevant issues under Executive Order No. 209,
otherwise known as the "Family Code of the Philippines"; and
c. As a prerequisite of the donation of blood in compliance with the provisions of
Republic Act No. 7t70, otherwise known as the "Organ Donation Act of 1991," and
Republic Act No. 7719, otherwise known as the "National Blood Services Act of
L994.',
SECTION 3. MECHANISMS AND STANDITRDS OF ROUTINE *PROVIDER -
IilITIATED AND CTIETT-IilMATED HIV CC)UNSELING AND TESTI]IG . To
implement this SECTION, the DOH shall:
a. Accredit public and private HIV testing facilities based on the capacity to deliver
testing seruices including Hil/ counseling: Provided, that only DOH-accredited
HIV testing facilities shall be allowed to conduct HIV testing;
b. Develop the guidelines for HIV counseling and testing, including mobile HIV
counseling and testing, and routine provider-initiated HIV counseling and
testing that shall ensure among others, that HIV testing is based on informed
consent, is voluntary and confidential, is available at all times, and provided by
qualifl ed persons and DoH-accredited providers;
c. Accredit institutions or organizations that train HIV and AIDS counselors in
coordination with CSWDO;
d. Accredit competent HIV and AIDS counselors for Persons with Disability,
including, but not limited to, translator for the hearing-impaired and Braille for
the visually impaired clients, in coordination with the Persons with Disabilities
Affairs Office (PDAO);
e. Set the standards for HIV counseling and shall work closely with HIV and AIDS
CSOs that train HIV and AIDS counselors and peer educators, in coordination
and pafticipation of CSOs and other Go'vernment Agencies of PLHIV (CSOPLHIV); and
f. Ensure access to routine provider-initiated counseling and testing as part of
clinical care in all health care settings for the public.
AII HIV testing facilities shall provide free pre-test and post-test HIV counseling to
individuals who wish to avail of HIV testing, which s;hall likewise be confidential. No HIV
testing shal! be conducted without informed consent, The City Government of Davao shall
ensure that specific approaches to HIV counseling and testing are adopted based on the
nature and extent of HIV and AIDS incidence in the country.
Pre-test counseling and post-test counseling shall be done by the HIV and AIDS
counselor, licensed social worker, licensed health service provider, or a DOH-accredited
health seruice provider: Provided, that the governrnent testing facility for pre-test and
post-test counseling shall be provided for free.

Page L7 of24
'Ord.No.0707-24
SECTION 4.
NT WOMEil - A healthcare provider
who offers prenatal medical care shall offer provid,er-initiated HIV testing for pregnant
women. Provided that any pregnant women who refuse to avail of HIV testing shall not
be denied pre or ante-natal seruices. The DOH shall provide the necessary guidelines for
healthcare providers in the conduct of the screening procedure.
Afticle VII. STI, HIV and AIDS Treatment, Psychosocial Care and
Support
SECTION 1.
SUPPORT TO PERSONS LIVING
WITH HMND AFFECTED FAMITIES - The City' Government of Davao, through the
CHO-RHWC, treatment hubs and other HIV suppc)ft groups, shall ensure availability,
affordability and accessibility of STI and HIV treatmernt to Persons Infected with STI, HIV
and provide education on adherence to treatment. The CSWDO, in coordination with
DSWD and other seruice providers, shall provide psychosocial care and suppoft programs
to PLHIV and affected families.
SECTION 2.
, OVERSEAS WORKERS LIVING
WITH HIV - The CSWDO, in coordination with OVVWA, DMW, DOH, CHO, DSWD and
CSOs, shall develop a stigma-free comprehensive reintegration, care and suppoft
program including economic, social and medical support for overseas workers who have
been repatriated or are about to be repatriated due to their HIV positive status.
SECTION 3.
)RT SERVICES FOR PREGilANT
WOMEN WITH STL HMND AIDS - The CHO, tlrrough its Maternal Health Programs
in coordination with CSWDO and other accreditecl agencies/institutions sha!! provide
special care and support seruices for pregnant womran with STI, HIV and AIDS and shall
be integrated in the development plans and activities of the depaftment.
SECTION 4.
ORT SERVICES FOR CHITDREN
INFECTED WITH HIV AND CHILDREN OF PEIRSONS LIVING WITH HIV AND
AIDS - Treatment hubs, in coordination with CSWI)O and other accredited institutions,
shall provide psychosocial care and other interuentic,ns for the best interest of the child.
SECTION 5.
RT FOR ABUSED WOMEN. MEN,
CHILDREN AND PERSONS WITH DISABILITY INFECTED WITH STI, HIV AND
AIDS - The CHO, in coordination with the IGDD, CSWDO, Public Attorney's Office and
DCPO-WCPD Desk and CSOs, shall facilitate legal services to abused women, men,
children and Persons with Disability infected with STI, HIV and AIDS
SECTION 6. ASSESSMENT AND REFE|RRAI FOR SOCIAT WELFARE
SERVICES TO PERSONS LMNG WITH HIV - The CSWDO shall assess and refer
PLHIV to avail of social welfare services.
Afticle VIII. Health and Sup,poft Seruices
SECTION 1.
I, HIV AND AIDS HEALTHCARE
SERVICES - Access to STI, HIV and AIDS healthcare services/assistance shall be
extended to all individuals regardless of sex, gender, :;exua! orientation, 0g€, social status,
political belief, tradition, and religion.
SECTION 2.
HEAITH CARE AND ETHICS OF
CARE - Medical Practitioners or other staff assisting or directly providing health seruices/
examinations/education to clients shall adhere to the basic principles of ethics of care.
They shall also be sensitive to gender and sexuer! orientation in their treatment of
patients/clients, informing them of their rights, including the right to file charges for
abuses committed against them.

Pdge 18 of24
Ord. No. 0707-24
SECTION 3. SERVICE DELMRY NETWORK - The City Government of Davao,
through the DCAC, shall establish a service delivery network that is an integrated seruice
delivery system that addresses the needs of clients in the continuum of prevention,
testing, management of treatment and psychosocial care coordinated across levels and
sites of service delivery within and beyond the health sector.
SECTION 4.
.
The City Government of Davao, the DCAC, or any of the Council's Members, shal! ensure
that local communities, civil society groups, and organizations of people living with HIV
and their families are part of the local HIV-AIDS response.
In addition to ensuring representation and substantive pafticipation of the key
affected populations and their organizations in policy-making, direction-setting, planning
and programming, the City Mayor or his authorized representative, subject to existing
rules and regulations, may enter into agreements with, engage, procure, or secure the
seruices of, establish paftnerships or joint-initiatives with Civil Society Organizations,
PLHIV organizations, or organizations of key affected populations, in the delivery of health
or non-health seruices in the HIV continuum of care.
Afticle IX. STI, HIV and AIDS Surueillance and Monitoring
SECTION 1. MONITORING, DOCUMENTATION AI{D REPORTING
MECHANISM - The DCAC, through CHO-CESU and CSOs, shall develop a comprehensive
STI, HIV and AIDS monitoring and evaluation programs that shall serve the following
purposes:
a. Determine and monitor the magnitude and progression of HIV and AIDS in the
City to help the national government evaluate the adequacy and efficary of HIV
prevention and treatment programs being employed;
b. Receive, collate, progress, and evaluate al! medical reporb related to HIV and
AIDS from all hospitals, clinics, laboratories and testing centers, including HIVrelated deaths relevant data from public and private hospitals, various data
banks or information system: Provided, that it shall adopt a coding system that
ensures anonymity and confidentiality;
c. Monitor peformance commitment of accredited treatment hubs, and ensure
provision of all seruices as stipulated in the treatment guidelines; and
d. Submit to DCAC, through its Secretariat, an annual repoft containing the
findings of its monitoring and evaluation activities in compliance with this
mandate.
SECTION 2.
- The DCAC, through CHO-CESU,
CHO-HPU and CPDO, by itself, or in paftnership with the Department of Health, academe,
CSO or research institutions, shall conduct STI, HIV and AIDS related researches and
studies as basis in planning, policy making advocacy as needed.
Afticle X. STI, HIV and AIDS Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation
SECTION t.
- The DCAC shall develop and adopt
a 3-year Plan on fi, HIV, and AIDS, Investment Plan, and Annual Operational Plan and
Budget. The Annual Operational Plan with budget shall be developed and passed to the
Counci! for approval every third quarter of the present year. The plan shall include the
activities related to Advocary, Prevention, World AIDS Day and Candlelight Memorial
Commemoration.

Page 19 of24
Ord. No. 0707-24
SECTION 2. MONITORING, EVALUATION AND REPORTING . ThC DCAC
shall ensure monitoring and evaluation of the City's STI, HIV and AIDS 3-year operational
and implementation plans.
It shall repoft annually to the Office of the City Mayor, City Council and iE own
members on the status of the annual operational and implementation of the 3-year plans
as well as STI, HIV and AIDS situation in Davao City.
The DCAC shall integrate in its monitoring, evaluation, planning, and reporting
such pieces of evidence, processes, data, information, results, and recommendations
emanating from independent sources, researches, and initiatives, including communityled monitoring efforts as basis for developing, shaping, and updating strategies, plans,
projects, activities and allocation of resources.
Afticle XI. Discriminatory Acts and Practices
SECTION 1. The following Discriminatory Acts and Practices shall be prohibited:
a. Discrimination in the Workplace - The rejection of job application, termination
of employment, or other discriminatory policies in hiring, provision of
employment, and other related benefits, promotion or assignment of an
individual, solely or paftially on the basis of actual, perceived or suspected HIV
status.
b. Discrimination in Learning Institutions - Refusal of admission, expulsion,
segregation, imposition of harsher disciplinary actions or denial of services and
benefits of a student or prospective student solely or paftially on the basis of
actual, perceived or suspected HIV status.
c. Restrictions on Travel and Habitation - Restrictions on travel within the
Philippines, refusal of lawful entry to Philippine territory, depoftation from the
Philippines or the quarantine or enforced isolation of travelers solely or paftially
on account of actual, perceived or suspected HIV status is discriminatory. The
same standard of protection shall be accorded to migrants, visitors and
residents who are not Filipino citizens.
d. Restriction on Shelter - Restrictions on housing and lodging, whether
permanent or temporary solely or partially on the basis of actual, perceived or
suspected HIV status.
e. Prohibition from Seeking or Holding Public Office - Prohibition on the right to
seek an elective or appointive public office, solely or partially on the basis of
actual, perceived or suspected HIV status.
t. Exclusion from Credit and Insurance Seruices - Exclusion from health, accident
or life insurance, or credit and loan services, including the extension of such
loan, or insurance facilities, of an individual solely or paftially on the basis of
actual, perceived or suspected HIV status: Provided that the PLHIV has not
concealed or misrepresented the fact to the insurance company or Ioan or
credit seruice provider upon application.
g. Discriminations in Hospitals and Health Institutions - Denial of health seruices,
or being charged with a higher fee on the basis of actual, perceived or
suspected HIV status is discriminatory acts, and is prohibited.

t
Puge 20 of 24
Ord. No. A707-24
h. Denial of Burial Services - Denial of embalming or burial services for a deceased
person who had HIV and AIDS or who was known, suspected or perceived to
be HIV positive;
Act of bullying - Bullying in all forms, including name-calling, upon a person
based on actual, suspected or perceived to be HIV positive, including bullying
in socia! media and other online portals; and
j. Other similar or analogous discriminatory acts.
Afticle XII. Protection of HIV, Educators, Licensed Social
Workerc, Health Workerc and Other HIV and AIDS Seruice
Providers from Harassment
SECTION 1. Consistent with the national HIV and AIDS laws, except when
committing acts in violation thereof, any person involved in the provision of HIV and AIDS
seruices, including peer educators, shall be protected from suit, arrest or prosecution,
and from civil, criminal or administrative liability, on the basis of their delivery of such
seruices in HIV prevention.
Afticle XIII. Confidentiality of Information
SECTION 1. The DCAC shall ensure confidentiality in al! matters pertaining to STI,
HIV and AIDS as provided for in the national HIV and AIDS Iaws and regulations, and
other related policy issuances and guidelines.
a. Disclosure of confidential HIV and AIDS information - Unless authorized by law,
it shall be unlawful to disclose, without written consent, information that a
person has AIDS, has undergone HIV related test, has HIV infection, or HIV
related- illnesses or has been exposed to HIV.
The prohibition shal! apply to any person, natural or juridical, whose work or
function involves the implementation of this Act or the delivery of related HIV
services, including those who handle or have access to personal data or
information in the workplace, and who, pursuant to the receipt of the required
written consent from the subject of confidential HIV and AIDS information,
have consequently been granted access to the same confidential information.
b. Media Disclosure - It shall be unlaMul for any editor, publisher, repofter or
columnist, in case of printed materials or any announcer or producer, in case
of television and radio broadcasting, or any producer or director of films, in
case of the movie industry, or any other individual or organization, in case of
social media, to disclose the name, picture or any information that would
reasonably identiff the person living with HIV and AIDS, or any confidential
HIV and AIDS information without the prior written consent of their subjects,
except when the persons waive said confidentiality through their own acts and
omission under SECTION 4 (a) of Republic Act No. 10175, othenruise known as
the "Cybercrime Prevention Act of 20L2'and SECTION 25 of Republic Act No.
t0L73, otherwise known as the " Data Privary Act of 20L2".

Rage 21 of24
Ord. No. 0707-24
SECTION 2. EXCEPTIONS - Confidential HIV and AIDS information may be
released by HIV testing facilities without consent in the following instances:
a. When complying with repoftorial requirements of the national active and passive
surueillance system of DOH: Provided that the information related to a person's
identity shall remain confidential;
b. When informing other health workers directly involved in the treatment or care
of a PLHIV: Provided that such worker shall be required to perform the duty of
shared medical confidentiality; and
c. When responding to a subpoena duces tecum and subpoena ad testificandum
issued by a court with jurisdiction over a legal proceeding where the main issue
is the HIV status of an individual: Provided that the confidential medical record,
after having been verified for accuracy by the head of the office or department,
shall remain anonymous and unlinked and shall be properly sealed by its lawfu!
custodian, hand delivered to the court, and personally opened by the judge:
Provided fufther, that the judicial proceedings be held in executive session.
SECTION 3. DISCLOSURE OF HMELATED TEST RESULT - The result of
any test related to HIV shall be disclosed by the trained seruice provider who conducts
pre-test and post-test counselling only to the individual who submitted to the test. If the
patient is below fifteen (15) years old, an orphan, or is mentally incapacitated, the resutt
may be disclosed to either of the patienfs parents or legal guardian or a duly assigned
licensed social worker or health worker, whichever is applicable: Provided that when a
person below fifteen (15) years of age and not suffering from any mental incapacity, has
given voluntary and informed consent to the procedure in accordance with SECTION 29 (b)
of RA No. 11166, the result of the test shall be disclosed to the child. Provided further
that the child should be given age-appropriate counseling and access to necessary
healthcare and suffcient support services.
Anonymized and confidential reports shal! be given to a person authorized to receive
said reporB in conjunction with the DOH mandate as provided in SECTION 43 of RA 11166.
SECTION 4. DISCLOSURE TO PERSONS WITH POTENTIAT EXPOSURE TO
STI AND HIv - Any person who, after having been tested, is found to be infected with
STI and HIV is strongly encouraged to disclose his/her health condition to the spouse or
sexua! paftner and/or any person prior to engaging in penetrative sex or any potential
exposure to HIV. The person may seek help from health providers in order for him/her
to notiff and advise the partners who may have been exposed to infection.
The DCAC, through the CHO-RHWC, shall establish an enabling environment to
encourage newly tested HlV-positive individuals to disclose their status to paftners.
SECTIOil 5. CML LIABILITY - A person who has obtained knowledge of
confidential STI, HIV and AIDS information and has used such information to malign or
cause damage, injury or loss to another person may face liability under SECTION SO (n) of
Republic Act No. 11166, otherwise known as the "Philippine HIV and AIDS policy Act'.
Afticle Xrv. Passage of a Barangay srr, Hrv and ArDS ordinance
and Localization of City's STI, HIV, and AIDS plan
SECTION 1. BARANGAY STL HMND AIDS ORDINANCE - All Barangays
shall come up with a Barangay STI, HIV, and AIDS Ordinance with a designated HIV ioial
person defining the structures and functions, programs for implementation and
corresponding budgetary allocation.

"
.
.
r pagjel2of}4
SECTION 2. INTEGRATION OF HIV/AIDS PREVENTION PROGRAMS IN
THE BARANGAY DFVETOPMENT PLAN - The Barangay Council's progranrs, propctq
and activities, spearheaded by its Committee on Heatth to address Sn; HIV, and AIDS
shall be integrated into the Barangay Development plan.
The Liga ng mga Barangay, in coordination with City DILG and CHO-HpU, shalt
provide assistance to the respective barangay councils in developing their own locat HIV
and AIDS Plan, including its operationalization and invefinent comfonents.
sEcrroN 3. MoNrroRrNG AND REPORTTNG - The Liga ng mga Barangay
President shall lead in ensuring, monitoring, and reporting to ihe DCAC earanlay
compliance with the mandates of this Ordinance.
SECTION 4. ROLE OF THE SANGGUNIANG KABATAAN - The SANGGUNIANG
Kabataan shal! also include programs, projects, and activities relative to health education,
specifically IEC, STI, HIV, and AIDS.
Afticle Xlf. Commemoration of the International AIDS Candlelight
Memorial and Designation of Hrv and AIDS Awareness Month
SECTION 1. The InternationalAIDS Candlelight Memorialshall be commemorated
annually in the month of May.
SECTION 2. December 1of each year, aligned with the internationat campaign,
the World AIDS Day, and the entire month of December each year, are designateOii
HIV and AIDS Awareness Day and Month, respectively.
SECTION 3. ADVOCACY PROGRAMS - There shall be advocacy programs for
the whole month of May and December for the dissemination of information for the
prevention and control of STI, HIV and AIDS.
Afticle X/f. Penal provisions
SECTION 1. Unless otherwise prohibited, defined, and penalized under Republic
Act No. 11166, or specifically defined and provided herein, any persons found guilty of
violating any provisions of this Ordinance shalt be meted with the following penaigesi
First offense - A fine of P2,000 andlor imprisonment of one (1) month
second offense - A fine of P3,000 and/or imprisonment of thiee (3) months
Third offense - A fine of P5,000 and/or imprisonment of six (6) montns and/or
cancellation of business permit.
SECTION 2. REDRESS MECHANISM - The DCAC, through the City Legal Office
and relevant City Departments or Offices, in coordination with theLommission on Human
RighB (CHR), Public Attorney's Office (PAO), and other agencies, shal! establish a Citylevel redress mechanism for persons Iiving with HIV to ensure that their civil, political,
economic and social rights are protected.
Afticle ruII. Appropriation
SECTION 1. APPROPRIATION - The City shall allocate funds for the mandates
under this Ordinance which shall be based on and responsive to the local fi, HIV, and
AIDS situation, including projects and operations of the Davao City AIDS Council.
a
b
c

Page 23 of24'
Ord. No. 0707-24
Afticle XVIII. Final Provisions
SECTION 1. IMPLEMENTII{G RULES AND REGULATIONS - The City Mayor's
Office together with the Davao City AIDS Council shall, within a period of one month but
not to exceed six months, formulate and issue appropriate rules and regulations
necessary for the implementation of this Ordinance.
Afticle XIX
SECTION 1. SEPARABILITY CIAUSE - If, for any reason, any SECTION or
provision of this Ordinance is declared unconstitutional or invalid, other sections or
provisions hereof which are not affected thereby shall continue to be in full force and
effect.
Afticle il
SECTION 1. REPEALIilG CLAUSE - Any provisions of City Ordinance No.
04L-02, SERIES of 2002,local issuances or rules inconsistent with this Ordinance shall be
deemed amended and/or repealed.
Afticle [I
SECTION 1. EEEEGEW - This Ordinance shall take effect immediately upon
approval and publication in a local newspaper of genera! circulation in Davao CiW.
ENACTED, December 3, 2024, by a unanimous vote of all the Members of the
Sanggunian, there being a quorum.
CERTIFIED CORRECT:
cfia#ff"inbodhG
City Government Department Head II
(Secretary to the SANGGUNIANG Panlung1p
ATTESTED:
J.M
il
ELCIOR B. QUTTATN JR.
/
viceMayor
Presiding Officer
cns/raine

7'-
+'-tF{
i
_::r
-_y
r-^---
-
Y
i
a
7.,
n
APPROYED:
FEB 0 7 2025
Pa$e 24 ot 24
m. No. 0707-24
mi24
f
ir'
,
Z. U'TERTE
MaYP
v
ATTESTED:
ATTV.
II. LAYOG
City
AItl ORDIMilCE AIIIE{DI}IG CITY ORDII{AflCE t{O. Ofr{a_SERI6 G ZW AS AI|ENDED Br cTy ORDIMI{CE NO. O679.tg
SERIE oF 2019, PRoltlt |GATII{G PouqE eno uEAsuns FoR THE merhrng, ,,r*-nrmn,-q*-ArrtD sUpFoRr or sr[
HIV AT{D AIE IN DAVAO CITY, STRENGTHEiIIT{G ITIE DAVAO CTTV ruOS MU}gL APMd{IiANN'G ruilT}S THRtrO& AI{D
rcVIDIIIG PEilALTIES FM, UOI.ATIOilS fiEREOF AiID FOR OTHER ruNMS