Offrce of the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod
2oth city Council
46th Regutar Session
SERIES oJ 2O24
PRESENT:
Vice Mayor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
J. Melchor B. Quitain Jr.
Marissa S, Abella
Nilo M. Abellera Jr.
Luna Maria Dominique S. Acosta
Bai Hundra Cassandra Dominique N. Advincula
Dante L. Apostol Sr.
Conrado C. Baluran
Jessica M. Bonguyan
Louie John J. Bonguyan
Pilar C. Braga
Jonard C. Dayap
January N. Duterte
Edgar P. Ibuyan Jr.
Richlyn N. Justol-Baguilod
Diosdado Angelo Junior R. Mahipus
Rodolfo M. Mande
Kristine May John Abdul Mercado
Bonz Andre A. Militar
Temujin B. Ocampo
Albefto T. Ungab
Lorenzo Benjamin D. Villafuefte
Trisha Ann J. Villafuerte
Jesus Joseph P.Zozobrado III
Bernard E. Al-ag
Wilbefto E. Al-ag
Al Ryan S, Alejandre
Augusto Javier G. Campos III
Myrna G. L'Dalodo-Oftiz
Presiding Officer
- On Sick Leave
- On Sick Leave
- OB-Attended the Philippine
Councilors League
- OB-Attended the Philippine
Councilors League
ABSENT:
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
ORDINANCE NO. O7T5.24
SERIES of 2O24
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE PROVISTONS OF ORDINANCE NO.
O29I.T7I OTHERWISE KNOWN AS THE *2017 REVENUE CODE OF THE
CITY oF DAvAOi As AMENDED, oN sERvIcE CONRACTORS,
SPECIFICALLY SECTIONS 5, PAR. (c30)' 79t 97t 229t 231, AND 233
TO CONFORM TO THE PROVISIONS OF ARTA-DTI.DILG-DICT JOINT
MEMORANDUM CIRCUTAR NO. 1, SERIES OF 2O2L AND DEPARTMENT
OF FINANCE LOCAL FINANCE CIRCUTAR NO. OOI-2O22

Ord. No. 07t5-24
Be it ordained by the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod of Davao City in session assembled,
that:
SECTION 1. TITLE - This Ordinance shall be known as "AN ORDINANCE
AHENDING THE PROVISIONS OF ORDIITANCE NO. Oilgt-tzt oTHERWISE
ro{owr{ as rxr "2tttt REvEnuE coDE or rxi-rry & ;;vAo1'AsAMEffiED;
oN sERvrcE colt_rRAcToRs, sPEcrFrcALtY sEcrroNs s, pAR. (c3o), 19, it,
229,23L, AND 233 TO CONFORM TO THE PROVISIOilS OF ARTA-DTI-DIIG-DICT
JOII{T MEIIIORAI{DUM CIRCUTAR J{O. 01, SERIES OF 2O2t At{D DEpARTtrtEt{T
OF FINANCE LOCAL FITTIANCE CIRCULAR Ub. OOr- 2022'
SECTIOil 2.. AUTHORITY - SECTION 153 of Republic Act No. ttGO, otherwise
known as the "Local Government Code of 1991", provides that ..ttcai gor.rrnent units
may impose and colled such reasonable fee and charges for senrices ,eniered,,.
SEcTroll 3. AMEITDII|ENTq :}q following provisions of ordinance t{o. azgt,t7,
as amended by ordinance No. 0612-2l, SERIES of z})i, shall be further amended, to wit
A. Chapter One, SECTION 5, paragraph (C30) and sub-paragraph (4) shall read as follows:
FROM:
CHAPTER 1: GEilERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION 5. Definition of Terms,
(c30) Contractor -_ inc]uqes persons, natural or juridical, not subffi to professinnal tax
under SECTION 139 of the Local Government Code oi tggt, iuhose activity consists
essentially of the sale of all kinds of seryices for a fee, regardles of whether or not the
performance of the service calls for the exercise or use of *re physical Jr mental faculties
of such con&actor or his employees.
4) A "Service Contrado/'- is any person pr,incipalty rendering or offering services, whether
!V 3an13l labor, fte use of expertise or with the use of facitities or riachines ior a fee,
such as the following:
)ffi(
)ffi(
Business agents and other independent contractors (juridical or natural) not
included.. aqop individuals sqbject to 'professional taf "nd *nor" activity *'nSrt
essentially of the sale of all kinds of services directly to cliens for a fee. fhose inaividr;;.
with existing seruice agreements with any entity duiy-registered with the Business Bureau
for a period of not less than six (6) months shall be'considered as seruice contractors but
$eil pay only the necessary and aBplicablq fees pertaining t6 the services prwided,
exdudlng those attached to the principal, srch as fJiUing fe6, electroni. f"., mlctranlcai
!ee, salitation pernf I.e, sanitary lnspectton fee, solid *astei ree, piumuing fee, ,oning
feg garbage fee, and signboard fee.
4't) Food Delivery Customers ; Any_person or persons whether natural or juridical
who avails the services of a Food Delivery iider via phone appthations, internet websites
or other similar plafforms.

Ord. No. 0715-24
4.2) Food Delivery Rider or "Riders" - a seruice contractor which has a relation with
an independent food delivery company who delivers food to food delivery customer for a
fee.
4.3) Independent Food-Delivery Company - these are persons, partnerships,
corporations or other juridical entities who engage in the business of providing food to the
general public through phone applications, internet websites or other similar platforms.
)oo(
)oo(
)oo(
As used in this Code, Afticle Ten. - Graduated Tax on Business, the term "contractor" shall
include proprietors or operators of: mine drilling apparatus; dockyards; establishment
engaged in the installation of water system and gas or electric light or heat; smelting
plants; engraving, plating, or plastic lamination establishments; establishment for repairing,
repainting, upholstering, washing or greasing of vehicles, heavy equipment, vulcanizing,
recapping and battery charging; furniture shops; establishment for planning or sudacing
and re-cutting of lumber and sawmills under contract to saw or cut logs belonging to
others; dry-cleaning or dyeing, steam laundries and/or using washing machines
establishments; shops for the repair of any kind of mechanical and electrical devices,
instruments, apparatus, furniture, or shoe repairing by machine or any mechanical or
electrical devices; establishments or lots for parking purposes; tailor shops, dress shops,
milliners and hatters, beauty parlors, barbershops, massage clinics, sauna, Turkish and
Swedish baths, slenderizing and body-building saloon and similar establishments;
photographic studios; funeral parlors; hotels, motels, and lodging houses, apartels, inns,
boarding houses and dormitories; arrastre and stevedoring, warehousing, or forwarding
establishments; master plumbers, smiths, or sign painters; printers, bookbinders,
lithographers, publishers -except those engaged in the publication or printing of any
newspaper, magazine, review or bulletin which appears at regular interuals with fixed
prices for subscription and sale and which is not devoted principally to the publication of
advertisements; business agents, private detectives or watchman agencies; commercial
and immigration brokers; cinematographic film owners, lessors and distributors.
TO:
CHAPTER 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION 5. Definition of Terms.
(c30) Contractor - includes persons, natural or juridical, not subject to professional tax
under SECTION 139 of the Local Government Code of 1991, whose activity consists
essentially of the sale of all kinds of services for a fee, regardless of whether or not the
peformance of the seruice calls for the exercise or use of the physical or mental faculties
of such contractor or his employees.
4) A "Seruice Contractor" - refers to oersons, natural or iuridical, principally rendering
or offering services, whether by manual labor, the use of expeftise or with the use of
facilities or machines, for a fee, such as the following:
x)o(
rco(
)oo(

Ord. No. A7$-24
Bu$ness egenB and 6ther iridepeildert e6ritractOrs fiuiidieal oi natur6t) Rot
induded among individuals subJect to p,oftssional taf a,rd wtrose acfivtty con$$s
esentially of the sale of all kinds of services directly to clients ror a ree Those individuals
with ocisting seMce agreements with any entity duly-registered with the Business Bureau
for a period of not less than six (6) months shall be'considered as serujce contractors but
shall pay only the necessary and applicablq fees peraining to the services prwided,
excluding those .tt .fuf to the principal, such as o,iiuing fee, electrcnk fee, mechanhal
fee, sanitauon perm,l I"e, sanitary inspection fee, solid waste re", piuroing fee, zoning
fee, garbage fee, and signboard fee,
As used in this Code, Article Ten. - Graduated Tax on Business, the term ..con[actor,, shall
include proprietors or operators of: mine drilling apparatusi dockyards; establishment
engaged in the installation of water system and-gas'or electric lig'ht or heat; snrelUng
planFi engraving, Plating, or plastic tamination esmfiistrments; gaolisnment for repairing,
repainting, uPhol#ring,. wa$ring or greasing of vehictes, treavy eqiprerrt, wrdnizini,
recapping and battery charging; furnlture shops; estabtisirment for'plinning or sufacin-j
and rc-cutting of lumber and sawmills under contract to saw or cut logJ bebnging t5
oifiers; drydeantng o! dyeing, steam taundrtes andlor ushg washtnE mictrines
establishment+ stops for the repair of any kind of mectanical 5nd electri?al Oeviiei,
apParags., fumiture, or shgg repairing 4 machine or any rnechanical or
electrical dwkes; estailishnrents or lots for parkinlpurposes; tailo,r sffi, dress stropu,
milliners and hatters, beauty parlors, barbershops, rirassage clinics, sauna, Turkish and
Sutedbh baths, shnderizing and .body-building saloon afld similar eitaOfisnmens;
photogr€phk studios; funeral parlom;' arrastri *d ,t"-,ed"ri"g,- *aretrouring, #
forwarding dablishments; srniths, o1 $gn paintem; printeq bookbiliders, fffrograiirers,
publishers -except those_ engaged in ftre puoticailon or printing of any newspaper,
magazine, review or bulletin which appearc at regular intervals-with fixld pricls'for
subscription and sale and which is not devoted principally to the publication of
adverusementsi bu$ness ageffs, other rngerenacnt ontrac6rs as asimfoO in me
FrclgSry ,oafaoraun: prtvate deecuve
mrf,ercial and
immigration brokers; cinematographic fllm owners, Jessors and distributors.
B. chapter 2, Article Eleven, SECTION 79 shall read as follows:
Busines agents and other
FROTI:
Artide Ele{GR. - Situs of the Tax
SECTION 79. Situs of the Tax.
)fr(
(b) Sales Atlocation
)N(
)fr(
m(
)ffi(
)ffi(
)fr(

Ord. No. 07L5-24
5. In cases where there are two (2) or more factories, prcject offices, plants or plantations
located in differcnt localities, the seventy perent (7Ao/o) sales allocation shall be pro-rated
among the localities where such factories, project offices, plants and plantations are
located in proportion to their respective volumes of production during the period for which
the tax is due.
In the case of prcject offices of services and other independent contractorc, the term
production shall refer to the co6ts of projects actually undertaken during the tax period.
6. The foregoing sales allocaUon under par. (3) hereof shall be applied irrespective of
whether or not sales are made in the locality where the factory, pCIect office, plant or
plantaUon is located. In case of sales made by the factory pro'ject office, plant or
plantaUon, the sale shall be covered by paragraph (1) or (2) above.
7. In case of manufacturers or producerc whkh engage the services of an independent
contractor to produce or manufacture some of their products, the rules on situs of taxation
provided in this afticle as clarified in the paragraphs above shall apply except that the
factory or plant and warehouse of the contractor utilized for the produqtion or storage of
ttre rnarutraeturer's products sfla$ be considered as the factory or phrE ard warehouse of
the manufacturer.
SECTION 79. $tus of the Tax.
(b) Sales Allocation
5. In the case of project offices of seMces and other independent contractors, the term
production shall refer to the costs of projects actually undertaken during the tax period.
7. Personnel deployed by a seruioe ontracbr b its dient shall not be liable to
Fy local business tax b the CitI Gouernment of Davao wherc it is beina
6effi,
UterrfisE, erroiloysg rffio rrc ftiffifffinfttfio 6r h a fircrf(-ffiF
honrc arranoement shall not be liable to oav local busines tar in tte Gtv of
Davrc urhere it is teleommutino or workino-from-home.
8. In case of manufacturers or producers which engage the seruices of an independent
contractor to produce or manufacture some of their products, the rules on situs of
taxation prwided in this afticle as clarified in the paragraphs above shall apply except
that the factory or plant and warehouse of the contractor utilized for the production or
storage of the manufacture/s products shall be considered as the factory or plant and
warehouse of the manufacturer.
TO:
no(
nx
no(
)ffi(
)ffi(
)ffi(
C.
Chapter 3, Article One, SECTION 97 shall read as follows:
FROM:
SECTION 97. Rules and Regulations on Ceftain Establishments.
W
)ffi(

i
Ord. No. A7L5-24
(D A business establishment or entity with existing service agreement with independent
servie contractors shall furnish the Gty Mayor or his duly authorized representative a
complete list of said serice contractors. The owner or operator of said busines
establishment shall not allow any independent seryice contractors to commence operation
wiBtout first securing their own Mayo/s Permit to operate; and that sairl establistrment or
entity shall not accept any unregistered vendors or merchants to form paft of its operation.
(I.A) In addition to the business permit the Delivery Food Riders shall pay the following
fees, to wit:
Business Permit
Barangay Clearance
Tax Clearance
Delivery Vehicle Sticker
Health Certlficate Fee
laborabry Fee
Other applicable fees
Total
P 1,480.00
TO:
SECTION 97. Rules and Regulations on Ceftain Establishments.
I.
An entity. conducting business witfiin tfie Ctty of Davao, wfrich engages
wffi indridmlc rendcrina permnal sovke hr a h, whedrrr urder a ontr.Gt
of employment or noL sucfr as, but not limited to, delivery riders, and tempomrT
or outsourced perconnel, includino those who arc in a teleommuting or in a
wod<-ftom-home arranoemenL shall furnish tfie City Mavor or his duly
at*{todzed rcprcseffitiue a omoletc list of saU individuab. The owner or
gnqr4fipr, of ,sffi. Fqsisesq FstaD&HIH[fi qha[_ +pt, e$gs{.sf,ld , ipqividgals tQ
provide servioes without first securinq an ocupaUonal permit witfi the CiW.
Grnerc or operatorc of delivery applioatftrns sha[ not aeeF any vendors
or r*ertfrarB with no HaIo/s Permit b furm oart of its operatbn.
D, Afticle Twenty-Senrc[ Sc€tions 229,231, and 233, shall rrad as fulons:
FROIt:
ArHde Tlrenty-Seven. - Permit Fee on Oocupatlon or Calllng ltot
nequiring Gmrnrnent Ercminathn
SECTION 229. ImposiUon of Fee. - The following workers or employees nonholder of
validly issed Professional Tax Receipts whether working on temporary and permanent
ba$s, shatl seeure the individual Omrpational Permit d the moment they are aetuaff
acqted by the management of any buslness or industrial establlshment b start work and
shall pay an annual permit fee at the rate of One Hundred Twenty-Five Pesos (P125.00).
SECTION 231. Time and Manner of Payment. - The fees prescribed in this Article shall
be paid to the City Treasurer upon flling of the application for the first Ume and annually
thereafter within the first twenty (20) days of January of each year. The permit fee is
puyable fur every separate or distinct acupatton or calting engaged in. Emplopr shall
advance the fees to the City for its employees.
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
P 1,(nO.00
100.00
s0.00
200.00
50.00
80.00

Ord. No. 07L5-24
)ffi(
)ffi(
SECTION 232. Surcharge 6r Late Payment, - Failure to pay the fee prescribed in this
Afticle within the time prescribed shall suiject a taxpayer to a surcharge of twenty-five
PercT! (25Vo) of the original amount of the fee due;'such surcharge shitt be paid it tfre
same time and in the same manner as the tax due.
Newly hired workers and/or employees shall secure their individual Mayor,s permit from the
mornent they are actualty accepted W the management of any business or indusffiial
establishment to start working.
For indMduals who are engaged in an omlpation or calling without any emplopr, the
individual Mayor's Permit shall be renewed also within the first twenty (20) days of January
of each year.
TO:
SECTION 229. ImposiUon of Fee. - Workerc or employees who arc non-holderc of
validly issued Profiessional Tax Receipts, whether working on temporary ind
permanent basis, temporary or ouBouled personnel, ilrcludino tlrose who arc in a
telgolnmlUng or in a WFH arangemenL deployed bv a seruice contractor
doino businss in tlre Citf, and ildivfttsats or OPC who orovide personat seruices
that does not fall under lilre exercise of orcfession and do not occupy a
Dermonent work or retail soace, whether inside the rcsidence or in anv
ommercial sPace, such as, but not limited to, delivery riderc, shall secure 4
individual Occupational Permit at the moment they are actuatly accepted by the
management of any business or industrial establishment to comrnence wod< or render
service and shall pay an annual permit fee at the rate of One Hundred Twenty-Five Pesos
(P12s.00).
SECTION 231. Time ard Manner of Payment. - The fees prescribed in this Article shall
be paid to the City Treasurcr upon filing of the applicaUon for the first Ume and annuatty
thereafter on or beforc January 31 of each year. The permit fee is payable for every
separate or distinct occupation or calling engaged in. The employer or seruie
exercise of Hofession and do not oauov a oernnanent rrcrk or retail space shall
advance the fees to the Gty for its employees.
)oo(
SECTION 232. Surchalge fur Late Payment. - Failure to pay the fee prescribed in this
Article within the time prescribed shall subject a taxpayer to a surcharge of twenty-five
percent (25o/o) of the original amount of the fee due; such surcharge shall be paid at the
same Ume and in the same manner as the tax due.
SECTIOH 4. SEPARABILIW CLATEE - lf, for any reason, any SECTION or
provl$on of thls ORDINANCE ls dedared unconstitutlonal or invalid, other sections or
provisions hereof not affiecH by such declaration shall continue to be in fult force and
effect.
SBCTIOil 5. REPEALIIIG CLAUSE. All Ordinances and issuances that are contrary
to or inconsistent herewith are hereby repealed or modified accordingly.
SECTION 6. EEFECTMTY- This Ordinance shall take effect TEN (10) DAYS after
its publication in a newspaper of general circulation.

' Page 8 of8
Ord. llci. O7l5-24
EilACTED, on ttre 5* day of Decembr 2024, by a unaninpts rcte of all ttre
Members of the Sanggunian, there being a quorum.
CERTTEIED G(XRECT:
,fioMn.\k
Gty @vemment Depafirnent Head II
(Secretary to the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsrld)N
ATTESTED:
ATTESIED:
I. nafrAB. eurrArru rR.
/
Vice Mayor
' Presiding fficer
cn$dt
JAN I 5 2025
APPROVED:
2ol24
Z. DUTERTE
L
ATTY.
H. LAYOG
AN ORDII{ANCE AMENDING THE PROVISIONS OF ORDINANCE NO. 0291-17, OTHERWISE
KT{OIA/N AS THE *2017 REVENUE CODE OF THE CITY OF DAVAO", AS AMENDED, ON SERVICE
cc'{RAcToRS, SptcIFICALLy SECnONS 5, pAR. (C30),79,97, ZZg, ?J.L, AND 233 TO
@f{FORM TO TTIE PROVISIONS OF ARTA-DTI.DILGDICT JOIT.IT IT4EMORANDUM CIRCI,I.AR f{O.
1, SERIES OF 2O2T AND DEPARTI4ENT OF FINANCE LOCAL FIIIANCE CIRCTJI.AR NO. M1-2022
City