€
z
cls
tlN
Office of the Sangglrniang Panlungsod
2oth city Council
14th Regular Session
SERIES of 2024
PRESENT:
Vice Mayor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
ABSENT:
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
J. Melchor B. Quitain Jr.
Nilo M. Abellera Jr.
Luna Maria Dominique S. Acosta
Bai Hundra Cassandra Dominique N. Advincula
Al Ryan S. Alejandre
Dante L. Apostol Sr.
Conrado C. Baluran
Jessica M. Bonguyan
Louie John J. Bonguyan
Pilar C. Braga
Augusto lavier G. Campos III
Jonard C. Dayap
Edgar P. Ibuyan Jr.
Richlyn N. Justol-Baguilod
Diosdado Angelo Junior R. Mahipus
Rodolfo M. Mande
Kristine May John Abdul Mercado
Bonz Andre A. Militar
Temujin B. Ocampo
Myrna G. L'Dalodo-Ortiz
Albefto T. Ungab
Lorenzo Benjamin D. Villafuerte
Trisha Ann l. Villafuefte
Marissa S. Abella
Bernard E. Al-ag
Wilbefto E. Al-ag
January N. Dutefte
- Presiding Officer
On Sick Leave
Councilor Jesus Joseph P. Zozobrado III
On Vacation Leave
OB- Attended a Barangay
Conference
On Special Privilege Leave
ORDINANCE NO. 0472-24
SERIES of 2O24
AN ORDTNANCE AMENDTNG ORDTNANCE NO. 0367-12, SERTES OF
2OL2t OTHERWTSE KNOWN AS *THE NEW COMPREHENSTVE ANTISMoKING ORDINANCE OF DAVAO CrTY,', AS AMENDED BY
oRDTNANCE NO. O37-L9, SERTES OF 2Ot9, TO TNCLUDE
PROVISIONS PROTECTING VULNERABLE MINORS FROM
SMOKING AND TOBACCO USE

Page 2 of L4
Ord. No. 0472-24
Be it ordained by the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod of Davao City in session
assembled, that:
SECTION 1. TITLE - This Ordinance shall be known as *THE REVISED
COMPREHENSIVE ANTI-SMOKING ORDINANCE OF DAVAO CIW'.
SECTION 2. DECIARATION OF POUCY- Pursuant to Republic Act (R.A.) No.
7160 (Local Government Code of 1991), the City Government of Davao shall exercise the
powers expressly granted, those necessarily implied therefrom, as well as powers
necessary, appropriate, or incidental for its efficient and effective governance, and those
which are essential to the promotion of the general welfare. Within its respective
territorial jurisdiction, it shall ensure and support the maintenance of peace and order,
and the preseruation of the comfort and convenience of its inhabitants.
Thus, it is the Poliry of the City Government of Davao to ensure the prevention,
suppression, and imposition of proper penalties for smoking, vaping, or engaging in
similar activities in public places, selling the same to minors or allowing them to engage
in such activities and such other acts using the same that are inimica! to the heatth and
welfare of the inhabitants of the City.
SECTION 3. DEFINITION OF TERMS - For purposes of this Ordinance, the
following terms are defined operationally:
1. Accommodation and Enteftainment Establishments - refer to
establishments that provide food, accommodation, drinks, merchandise,
entertainment or other professional seruices, including but not limited to,
restaurants, fast foods, eateries, hotels, motels, lodges, inns, boarding houses,
disco houses, videoke bars, resto bars, and movie houses, or any other place with
pleasant environment and atmosphere conducive to comfoft, healthful relaxation
and rest, offering food and/or drinks, sleeping accommodation and recreation
facilities to the public for a fee;
2. Centers of Youth Activities - refer to places such as playschools,
preparatory schools, elementary schools, high schools, colleges and universities,
youth hostels, parks and playgrounds, and other recreational facilities for minors;
3. Children Rescued - refer to minors rescued from any conceivable forms of
danger, including substance use and abuse;
4. Electronic Device Systems (EDS) - refer to any device, such as electronic
nicotine device system, electronic cigarette, vapes and other similar devices,
whether or not it is used to deliver nicotine to the user, that resembles the
outward appearance of real smoking products;
5. Enclosed or Paftially Enclosed Public Place - refers to all places, which
are enclosed by one or more walls or sides, whether covered by a roof or not, or
even if open on all sides but is covered by a roof, regardless of whether the
structure is permanent or temporary in nature, that are accessible or open to the
public, whether or not by invitation or by payment, or all places for collective use,
regardless of ownership or right to access including, but not limited to, gasoline
stations, banks, malls, shopping/business arcades, town squares, terminals,
airpoft, seaports, schools, places of worship/churches, hospitals, cinema houses,
gymnasiums/covered courts, funeral parlors, barber shops, cockpits, gaming

Page 3 of t4
Ord. No. 0472-24
areas, recreational facilities, pedestrian overpass, indoor car parks, waiting sheds,
sidewalks, and other places where people usually congregate;
6. Immediately Dangerous to Life or Health (IDLH) - describes hazards in
which an acute exposure to the hazard poses a severe risk of immediate health
damage, injury, or death. This is determined by the Food and Drug Administration
(FDA) or the City Health Office (CHO), with proper coordination with the FDA, in
accordance with their existing policies and standards;
7. Minors - are persons who are below the age of majority or below the legal age
of eighteen (18) years, or persons who are eighteen (18) years of age or older,
but are incapable of taking care of themselves due to their mental incapacity;
8. Person-in-charge - refers to the president/manager, in case of a company,
corporation, paftnership or association, the owner/proprietor/operator, in case of a
single proprietorship, of accommodation and entertainment establishments,
whether tourism-accredited or not, or the administrator in case of government or
private propefi, facility, office or building, workplaces, enclosed or paftially
enclosed public places, public buildings, public outdoor spaces, places of worship,
hazardous areas, food preparation areas, health facilities of any kind, centers of
youth activity or other facilities frequented particularly by minors, and the
city/municipal schools superintendent, school president, dean or principal, in case
of schools;
9. Public Conveyances - refer to any vehicle, whether mobile or stationary,
used in the transpoft of passengers or available to the public as a mode of
transport, such ds, but not limited to, jeepneys, buses, trains, vans, taxis,
airplanes, ships, and other modes of water transpoftation, trirycles, motorcycles,
and other public utility vehicles whether covered by a Certiflcate of Public
Convenience or not;
10. Public Building - refers to any of the following:
A building or structure owned by the government or owned by a private
person but used, rented, or occupied by the government or any of its
instrumentalities; or
Any building or structure used or controlled exclusively for public purposes
by any depaftment or branch of government, local government unit, or
barangay without reference to the ownership of the building;
11. Public Outdoor Spaces - refer to outdoor spaces that are open to the public or
places where facilities are available for the public or where a crowd of people gather
or congregate or regardless of ownership or right to access such as, but not limited
to, parks, playgrounds, spofts grounds or centers, gaming areas, gardens, resorts,
beaches, pools, markets, streets, sidewalks, parking areas, walkways, entrance ways,
waiting areas, stairwells and the like'
12. Shisha - refers to a device or instrument which may have a single or multistemmed pipe for smoking, whether or not it delivers nicotine to the user, in
which the smoke is passed through a water basin before inhalation. It is also
known as water pipe, Sheesha, Hookah, Nergeela, Argeel and Nargile;
a

I
Page 4 of L4
Ord. No. 0472-24
13. Smoking/Vaping - refers to the lighting and/or puffing of any cigarette,
cigar, tobacco product of any kind, form or type, EDS, Shisha, vape and the like,
whether it contains nicotine or not. Possession of any lighted and/or puffed
cigarette, cigar or any tobacco product, or an actually operated EDS, Shisha,
Vape and the like within the prohibited areas for smoking shall constitute "prima
facid'evidence of smoking/vaping as prohibited under this ordinance;
14. Tobacco Product - any product that consists of loose tobacco, whether or
not it contains nicotine, and is intended for use in a cigarette, including any
product containing tobacco, and intended for smoking/vaping or oral or nasal
use; and
15. workplaces - an area, permanent or temporary, in which a person
performs duties of employment or work, regardless of whether the work is done
for compensation or on a voluntary basis, and includes private offices, common
area and any other area which is generally used or frequented during the course
of employment or work. Company-owned vehicles used for transpofting
employees and guests or any vehicle used in the course of work are considered
workplaces.
SECTION 4. COVERAGE - It shall be unlawful for any person to smoke/vape or
allow the smoking/vaping of any tobacco product, or use EDS, Shisha, Vape and the like,
in all forms of Public Conveyances, Government-owned Vehicles, Accommodation and
Enteftainment Establishments, Workplaces, Enclosed or Partially Enclosed Public Places,
Public Buildings and Public Outdoor Spaces, Places of Worship, Hazardous Areas, Food
Preparation Areas, Health Facilities of any kind, Centers of Youth Activities, and areas
within one hundred (100) meters from any point of the perimeter of Schoots, Public
Playgrounds or other facilities frequented particularly by minors, except in duly
designated smoking/vaping areas as deflned in SECTION 5 hereunder, within the territorial
jurisdiction of Davao City.
It shall also be unlawful for any person to domestically manufacture or adulterate
any tobacco product, EDS, Shisha, Vape and the like that are IDLH.
It shall also be unlawful for any person, natural or juridical, to direct, order,
compel, request or ask a minor to acquire or purchase from, possess, sell, offer or
distribute any tobacco product, EDS, Shisha, Vape and the like, to any other person
and/or for any other person, and to allow, abet, tolerate or permit such minor to acquire,
purchase, possess, sell, offer, distribute, use, consume, or smoke/vape any tobacco
product, EDS, Shisha, Vape, and the like.
SECTION 5. DESIGNATED SMOKING/VAPING AREA (DSVA) - refers to an
outdoor space where a person is permitted to smoke and vape without violating this
Ordinance, provided that, the same meets the following requirements, at the minimum:
There shall be no opening that will allow air to escape from the DSVA to
the smoke/vape-free area of the building or conveyance, except for a
single door equipped with an automatic door closer;
It shall be located in or within ten (10) meters from entrances, exits, or
any place where people pass or congregate, or in front of air intake ducts;

Page 5 of t4
Ord. No. 0472-24
The DSVA shall not be larger than twenty percent (20o/o) of the total floor
area of the building or conveyance, provided that, in no case shall such
area be larger than five (5) square meters;
No building or conveyance shall have more than one DSVA; Provided that,
persons-in-charge have the option of establishing one (1) Designated
Smoking Area (DSA) and one (1) Designated Vaping Area (DVA) therein,
subject to the same standards under this SECTION, with a combined area
not exceeding twenty percent (20o/o) of the total floor area of the building
or conveyance;
Minors shall not be allowed inside the DSVA;
It shall have the following signages highly visible and prominently
displayed:
a. "Smoking/Vaping Area" signage;
b. Graphic health warnings on the effects of using tobacco products, EDS,
Shisha, Vape and the like; and
c. Prohibition on the entry of minors, pregnant women, and lactating
mothers.
vil
Other standards and specifications to better ensure a smoke/vape-free
environment as may be prescribed by existing laws, rules and regulations
and policies; Provided that, such standards and specifications are
consistent with this Ordinance and that persons-in-charge are given sixty
(60) days to comply upon the effectivity of this Ordinance.
Nothing in this Ordinance shall compel persons-in-charge to establish DSVAs nor
prevent them from instituting more stringent measures in their buildings and
establishments to better ensure a smoke/vape-free environment in their premises.
All DSVAs shall be covered by a Ceftificate of Compliance from the City Mayort
Office through the Anti-Vices Task Force (AWF), created under this Ordinance.
SECTION 6. MANDATORY DUTIES AND OBLIGATIONS - The person-incharge, as defined in this Ordinance, shall:
1. Prominently display "NO SMOKING/VAPING" signs in the most visible locations
in the area where smoking/vaping is prohibited (main accommodation area,
function rooms, bars, cashiers, VIP rooms, and comfort rooms), in order to ensure
that the public can easily view such signs and be notified.
2. The "NO SMOKING/VAPING" signs for establishments and for public areas, such
as public parks and public playgrounds, shall be at least eight by eighteen (8x18)
inches in size and the International "NO SMOKING" symbol (consisting of a pictorial
representation of a burning cigarette, and EDS or Vape enclosed in a red circle with
a red bar across it) shall occupy no less than sixty percent (600/o) of the said
signage. The remaining forty percent (40o/o) of the signage shal! show the
peftinent information/precautionary statement, as follows:
"STRICTLY NO SMOKING/VAPING
Per Ordinance No
Violators are fined up to
IV
V.
vi
Repoft to
t,

Ord. No. 0472-24
3. Fufthermore, every establishment supplying, selling, distributing and/or offering
any tobacco products, EDS, Shisha, Vape and the like, must put up a prescribed
sign bearing the words "STRICTLY No SMoKING/yAPING FoR MINoRS,, the
letters of which shall not be less than three (3) inches tall and placed in a
prominent area within the establishment.
4. Remove all ashtrays or any receptacles for dispensing cigarette refuse from
Accommodation and Entertainment Establishments, Workplaces, Enclosed or
Paftially Enclosed Public Places, Public Buildings, other Public Outdoor Spaces,
Places of Worship, Hazardous Areas, Food Preparation Areas, Health Facilities of
any kind, Centers of Youth Activities, and areas within one hundred (100) meters
from any point of the perimeter of schools, public playgrounds, or other facilities
frequented pafticularly by minors.
5. Ensure that all the employees in the establishment are aware of the Ordinance
and to provide a procedure for informing customers or clients of the provisions of
this Ordinance.
6. Undertake all reasonable steps to ensure strict implementation of this Ordinance
and to inform people to refrain from smoking/vaping any tobacco product, EDS,
Shisha, Vape and the like within their establishments, except in duly approved
DSVAS. The person-in-charge or his/her duly authorized representative, including
the employees concerned, shall immediately inform the AWF or its duly deputized
enforcers, or any law enforcer or the nearest police station, of the violation and the
violator/s thereof.
7. In terms of sale and distribution of any tobacco products, EDS, Shisha, Vape,
and the like:
a. No person or establishment may sell or distribute any tobacco products,
EDS, Shisha, Vape, and the like to minors;
b. when the age of a person is in doubt, the owners, managers or employees
of any of said establishments are mandated to require the presentation of
such person's valid government-issued identification (ID) card, which shall be
"prima facid'evidence of said persons;
i. Persons who fail to show their valid government issued ID cards, or who
present such ID which are of questionable validity, shall be denied seruice
and in the case of minors, shall be immediately referred to the City Social
Welfare and Development Office (CSWDO) for their rescue. Said children
rescued under this Ordinance shall be subjected to and dealt with in
accordance with the provisions of the Juvenile Justice and Welfare Act of
2006 under Republic Act No. 9344, as amended by Republic Act No.
10630, and the Child and Youth Welfare Code of L974 under Presidential
Decree No. 603;
ii. Persons or establishments who fail to require the presentation of such
valid government-issued ID cards shall be held liable under SECTION 9 of
this Ordinance;

i,
t,
PageT of L4
.
.
Ord. No. 0472-24
c. Persons who acquire, buy, purchase, or possess any tobacco products, EDS,
shisha, vape and the like on behalf of a minor, or direct, order, compe!,
request, ask, force, abet, or permit a minor to acquire, bUy, purchase, use,
consume, smoke/vape any tobacco products, EDS, shisha, vape and the like
shall be accordingly penalized under this Ordinance.
d. Likewise, it shall be unlawful for any establishment to allow, or any person
to practice smoking/vaping session or sharing of any tobacco products, EDS,
Shisha, Vape and the like with minors;
e. It shall not be a defense for any person, or establishment and its employees
in selling or distributing any tobacco product, EDS, Shisha, Vape and the like,
that he/she/it did not know or was not aware of the real age of the minor.
Neither shall it be a defense that he/she/it did not know nor had any reason to
believe that any tobacco product, EDS, shisha, Vape and the like, was for the
utilization or consumption of the minor to whom it was sold.
8. Persons-in-charge of schools, public playgrounds, youth hostels and recreational
facilities for minors, including those frequented by minors, may post the following
statement in a clear and conspicuous manner:
"SELLING, ADVERTISING AN D/OR PROMOTI NG SMOKING/VAPING,
TOBACCO PRODUCTS, ELECTRONIC DEVICE SYSTEMS, SHISHA,
VAPE AND THE LIKE NOT ALLOWED WITHIN 1OO METERS FROM
ANY POINT IN THE PERIMETER OF [NAME OF
scHooL/pt-Ayc Rou N D/FACU LTy FOR M INORS/ ETC. I ; "
9. Persons-in-charge of schools, public playgrounds, youth hostels, and recreational
facilities for minors, including those frequented by minors, shall repoft to the
nearest AVTF any tobacco product, EDS, Shisha, vape and the like selling,
adveftising and/or promotion located within one hundred (100) meters from its
perimeter; and
10. Persons-in-charge of point-of-sale establishments shall post the following
notice, together with a graphic/picture-based health warning on the health
consequences of tobacco use/smoking/vaping, as prescribed by the Department of
Health (DOH), in a clear and conspicuous manner:
"SALE AND/OR DTSTRTBUTTON OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS,
ELECTRONIC DEVICE SYSTEMS, SHISHA, VAPE AND THE LIKE
TO MINORS IS UNLAWFUL."
Owners, operators, and drivers of Public Conveyances, government-owned,
and company-owned vehicles used to transport employees and guests are
mandated to prominently display "No SMOKING/VAPING" signs as follows:
1. For jeepneys, the "No SMOKING/VAPING" sign of at least 3.5 sq. inch shall
be placed at the back of the windshield and another sign of at least 10 sq. inch
shall be placed at the back of the front row seats;

Ord. No. 0472-24
2. For taxis, vans, or other similar vehicles, the "NO SMOKING/VAPING" sign of at
least 3.5 sq. inch shall be placed on the glove compaftment at the front right
side of the taxi windshield and another sign of at least 10 sq. inch shall be
placed at the back of the driver's seat;
3. For buses, the "NO SMOKING/VAPING" sign of at least 3.5 sq. inch shall be
placed at the back of the windshield and another sign of at least 14 sq. inch
shal! be placed at the back of the driver's seat facing the passengers or a
similarly prominent area of the bus; and
4. For other types of public vehicles, the "NO SMOKING/VAPING" sign of at least
3.5 sq. inch shall be placed at the back of the windshield and another sign of at
least 10 sq. inch shall be placed at a prominent location facing the passengers or
a similarly prominent area of the vehicles."
SECTION 7. TOBACCO PRODUCT, ELECTRONIC DEVICE SYSTEMS,
$IIISHA, VAPE, AND THE LIKE OF DOMESTIC MANUFACTURE: WHEN SALE OF,
MAY BE PROHIBITED - Whenever a domestically manufactured or adulterated tobacco
product, EDS, Shisha, Vape, and the like is found by the AVTF to be unlicensed before the
FDA, the same must be repofted to the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), for proper
action. Once the FDA issues an order, repoft or advisory against any unlicensed
domestically manufactured or adulterated tobacco product, EDS, Shisha, Vape and the
Iike, the AWF shall ensure that the Business Bureau prohibits the manufacturing and/or
sale of the same and the revocation of the Business Permit and closure of the
establishment.
In case an unlicensed domestically manufactured or adulterated tobacco product,
EDS, Shisha, Vape, and the like is discovered by the City Health Office (CHO) to be IDLH
to a person after conducting laboratory tests, the same must be reported to the FDA for
proper action and confirmation. When the FDA issues a confirmatory report against the
unlicensed domestically manufactured or adulterated tobacco product, EDS, Shisha, Vape
and the like, CHO shall immediately refer the matter to the Business Bureau for purposes
of prohibiting the manufacturing and/or selling of the same, revocation of the Business
Permit and to order the closure of the establishment.
SECTION 8. CREATION OF THE ANTI-VICES TASK FORCE (AWF). - The
Anti-Vices Task Force (AWF), formerly known as the "Anti-Smoking Task Force (ASTF),"
shall be created by the City Mayor's Office to aid in the implementation, monitoring, and
enforcement of this Ordinance. It shall be composed of the following:
CITY MAYOR -
- Honorary Chairperson
REPRESENTATIVE DULY APPOINTED
BY THE CITY MAYOR
- Co-Chairperson
CITY LEGAL OFFICER
- Vice Chairperson
VICES REGULATION UNIT (VRU)
MEMBERS:
1. THE CrTY HEALTH OFFTCE (CHO)
2. THE BUSINESS BUREAU
- Secretariat

Ord. No. 0472-24
3. THE OFFTCE OF CrTy BUTLDTNG OFFTCTAL (OCBO)
4. THE CrTY TOURTSM OPERATTONS OFFTCE (CrOO)
s. THE CrTy TNFORMATTON OFFTCE (CrO)
6. THE GENERAL SERVTCES OFFTCE (GSO)
7. THE CrTY ENVTRONMENT AND NATURAL RESOURCES OFFICE (CENRO)
8. THE CrTY ECONOMTC ENTERPRTSES (CEE)
9. THE CrTY SOCTAL WELFARE AND DEVELOPMENT OFFICE (CSWDO)
10. THE SPECTAL OFFICE FOR CHTLDREN',S CONCERN (SOCC)
11. THE BARANGAY AND CULTURAL COMMUNMES AFFAIRS DIVISION
(BCCAD)
12. THE PUBLTC SAFETY AND SECURTTY OFFTCE (PSSO)
13. THE DAVAO CrTy POLTCE OFFTCE (DCPO)
14. THE DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION (DepED) XI
15. THE CrTY TRANSPORT AND TRAFFTC MANAGEMENT OFFICE (CTTMO)
16. THE REPRESENTATIVE OF THE PRIVATE SECTOR.
For this purpose, AWF is tasked to implement, randomly inspect, and monitor
compliance of all places covered by this Ordinance, ceftiff the appropriateness of all areas
of the establishment, as well as the signages installed, and recommend closure of noncompliant establishments, taking into consideration the provisions of existing laws and the
purpose of vices regulations which is to protect individuals, especially minors, from the
pernicious effects of exposure to vices, such as, but not limited to, liquor and other
alcoholic beverages, tobacco products, EDS, Shisha, Vape, and the !ike, whether with
nicotine or not, and substance use and abuse.
With the approval of the City Mayor's Office (CMO), AVTF shall also have the power
to recommend amendments or revisions of any provision of this Ordinance.
After the publication of this Ordinance, AVTF, in coordination with the Business
Bureau and other concerned agencies, shall conduct information dissemination to all
persons and establishments. An ocular inspection shall then be conducted to all nonaccredited tourism establishments in Davao City after the effectivity of this Ordinance to
determine compliance with the requirements of this Ordinance.
For tourism-accredited accommodation and
ocular inspection shall be conducted by AWF,
Operations Office (C[OO) and Business Bureau.
enteftainment establishments, the
in coordination with City Tourism
The AWF, in coordination with City Health Office (CHO), City Social Welfare and
Development Office (CSWDO), and the Department of Education XI (DepEd XI), shall
undeftake educational awareness campaigns on the ill effects of all vices, information
dissemination programs, capacity building programs and vices cessation clinics.
The AWF, in coordination with the City Information Office (CIO), shall conduct an
information drive on the provisions of this Ordinance and educational awareness
campaigns on the ill effects of all vices through an intensified tri-media campaign.
The AWF, in coordination with the City Transpoft and Traffic Management Office
(CTTMO) and Davao City Police Office - Traffic Enforcement Unit (DCPO-TEU) shal!
inspect the presence of signages in all public utility vehicles and strictly monitor its
compliance.

Ord. No. 0472-24
SECTION 9. PENALTIES - The following penalties shall be imposed on violators
of this Ordinance:
OFFENSE
PENALTY
1. Failure to require a person to present a valid
qovernment-issued ID
Administrative Fine of One Thousand
Pesos (P1,000.00)
2. Failure to put up prescribed signs under
Sections 5 and 6
3. Smoking/vaping any tobacco product, EDS,
Shisha, Vape and the like within any of the
prohibited areas or outside a DSVA
Administrative Fine of Three
Thousand Pesos (P3,000.00) and
smokinq/vapinq cessation counselinq
4. Smoking/vaping any tobacco product, EDS,
Shisha, Vape, and the like in government offices
Administrative Fine of Three
Thousand Pesos (P3,000.00),
smoking/vaping cessation counseling,
and referral for administrative action
5. Selling or distributing tobacco products, EDS,
Shisha. Vaoes. and the like to minors
Administrative Fine of Five Thousand
Pesos (P5,000.00)
In the case of individuals with up to
one (1) year imprisonment, and in
the case of a business entity or
establishment, their business license
or permits shall be revoked or
cancelled.
6. Allowing smoking session, or the sharing of
any tobacco products, EDS, Shisha, Vape and
the like with minors
7. Direct, order, compel, request, ask, abet or
permit a minor to acquire or purchase, possess,
sell, offer, distribute, use, consume or
smoke/vape any tobacco product, EDS, Shisha,
Vape and the like
B. Direct, order, compel, request, ask, abet or
permit a minor to acquire or purchase, possess,
sell, offer, or distribute any tobacco product,
EDS, Shisha, Vape and the like on behalf of
another person
Administrative fine of Five Thousand
Pesos (P5,000.00)
In the case of individuals with up to
one (1) year imprisonment, and in
the case of a business entity or
establishment, their business license
or permits shall be revoked or
cancelled.
9. Direct, order, compel, request, ask, allow,
abet, tolerate or permit a minor to enter within
the DSVAs
10. Directing, ordering, compelling, requesting,
asking, forcing, abetting, or permitting a minor
to present an ID owned by a non-minor to
acquire, buy, purchase, possess, use, consume
or smoke/vape any tobacco product, EDS,
Shisha, Vape and the like
11. Acquire, buy, purchase or possess any
tobacco product, EDS, Shisha, Vape and the like
on behalf of a minor
L2. Selling, adveftising and/or promoting
smoking/vaping any tobacco products, EDS,
Shisha, Vape and the like within one hundred
(100) meters from any point of the perimeter of
schools, public playgrounds or other facilities
frequented by minors

13. Accepting an apparent questionable ID or an
ID owned by a different person other than the
person presenting it in order to allow, abet,
tolerate, or permit a minor to acquire, buy,
purchase, or possess any tobacco product, EDS,
Shisha, Vape and the like
14 Domestically manufacture or adulterate
tobacco products, EDS, Shisha, Vape and the
like that are IDLH and/or commercializing the
same
15. Knowingly allowing, abetting, or tolerating
the smoking/vaping of any tobacco product,
EDS, Shisha, Vape and the like in prohibited
areas
On the first offense, Administrative
Fine of Three Thousand Pesos
(P3,000.00)
16. Refusal to allow entry of the members of
the AWF or its duly deputized enforcers into
establishments for the purpose of implementing,
monitoring, inspecting and enforcing the
provisions of this Ordinance
On the second and subsequent
offenses, an Administrative Fine of
Five Thousand Pesos (P5,000.00) and
revocation of business permit
17. Failing to remove ashtrays or receptacles for
dispensing cigarette refuse within the
establishment, and areas within one hundred
(100) meters from any point of the perimeter of
schools, public playgrounds, or other facilities
Jrequented by minors
18. Exhibit posts, messages, or images that
promote or encourage the use, consumption or
smoke/vape of any tobacco product, EDS,
Shisha, Vape and the like
19. Interuening or interfering AWF members or
their duly deputized enforcers from performing
their duties
Page 11 of L4
Ord. No. 0472-24
In case of minors, the rescued children shall be turned over to the CSWDO who
shall meet with the child and his/her parents or legal guardians for proper
smoking/vaping cessation counseling and the development of the appropriate diversion
and rehabilitation program, in coordination with the Barangay Council for the Protection
of Children (BCPC) and City Health Office (CHO), and they shall be dealt with in
accordance with the provisions of the Juvenile Justice and Welfare Act of 2006 and the
Child and Youth Welfare Code of t974.
In the case of a single proprietorship business, the owner of the offending
establishment shall be made liable for violating this Ordinance. Likewise, the managing
paftners, in cases of paftnerships, and the president, secretary and/or such other
officers in charge of managing the business as provided in the by-laws, in cases of
corporations or associations, shall be made personally liable for violation of this
Ordinance, in instances involving juridical entities. For public conveyances, the operator,
driver and/or conductor shall also be made liable for violation of this Ordinance. In the
absence of evidence to the contrary, the manager and/or operator shall be presumed to
be the owner of the business under this Ordinance without prejudice to the application
of other laws and regulations.

Ord. No. 0472-24
In addition to the penalty imposed for the violation of any provision of this
Ordinance, the same shall carry with it the confiscation and forfeiture of all tobacco
products. EDS, Shisha, Vape and the like, involved in the commission of the offense.
SECTION 10. SMOKING 'VAPING CESSATION COUNSELING
Smoking/vaping cessation counseling in accredited clinics and district health Centers is
required after the administrative fine has been paid. The smoking/vaping cessation
counselor shall attest that the violator had undergone counseling by signing his/her
name in the citation ticket and attaching the required counseling form. After c-omplying
with the said requirements, the violator shall return the citation ticket to the
apprehending officer or to the VRU if the deputized enforcer is not a member of DCpO.
Notwithstanding the payment of the administrative fine herein provided, the
failure of any person violating any of the provisions of this Ordinance to undergo the
smoking/vaping cessation counseling, shall still warrant the filing of case in court.
SECTION 11' CITATION TICKETS - A citation ticket shall be issued to violators
of the provisions of this Ordinance. The citation ticket shall state, among others, the name
and address of the violator, the specific violation committed, and the corresponding
administrative penalty. There shall be three (3) copies of the citation ticket - the fiist copy
shall be endorsed to the VRU, the second copy shall be given to the violator, and the third
copy shall be retained by the apprehending enforcer.
Failure to pay any of the administrative fines per count shall result in an additional
administrative fine of One Hundred Pesos (P100.00) a day per count; provided, that the
total amount of administrative flne per count shall not exceed Five Thousand pesos
(P5,000.00); Provided, fufther, that non-payment of the total administrative fines per
count within three (3) working days from the time of apprehension or issuance of citation
ticket or failure to undergo the mandated smoking/vaping cessation counseling shall lead
to the prosecution of the case in court, subject to the penalties provided herein, without
prejudice to the prosecution of other actions.
SECTION 12. DEPUTIZED ENFORCERS - The City Mayor, through the Vices
Regulation Unit (VRU), may deputize and authorize representatives from Davab City police
Office (DCPO) to issue the corresponding citation tickets, and apprehend violators, and
the same shall be responsible in the strict implementation of this Ordinance.
Barangay officials or representatives from PSSO - Civi! Security Unit (CSU),
Business Bureau, City Economic Enterprise (CEE), City Health Office (CHO), City Social
Welfare and Development Office (CSWDO), private sector, non-government organizations,
and government organizations may also be deputized and authorized to monitor
compliance with the provisions of this Ordinance and repoft violations to the proper
apprehending officers.
SECTION 13. TRAINING AND DEPUTA,TION - All deputized enforcers shall be
required to undergo training on enforcement before they are deputized and allowed to
enforce this Ordinance. Only those who shall complete and pass the training shall be
deputized as enforcers by the City Mayor.
SECTION 14. BARANGAY OFFICIALS - Barangay Officials in Davao City shall
assist with the information dissemination on the salient features of this Ordinance, and
shall properly coordinate with the Depaftment of Education XI (DepEd XI), the
Commission on Higher Education (CHED) XI, Technical Education and Skills Development

Ord. No. 0472-24
Authority XI (TESDA XI), Business Bureau, Davao City Police Office (DCPO), Vices
Regulation Unit (VRU), Public Safety and Security Office (PSSO), Civil Security Unit (CSU),
City Economic Enterprise (CEE), City Health Office (CHO) and/or City Social Wetfare and
Development Office (CSWDO) in strictly enforcing the provisions herein within the
respective territorial jurisdiction of their Barangays.
Barangay Officials shall immediately coordinate with DCPO and/or CSWDO and
ensure the rescue of minors whenever they are involved in the possession, sale,
acquisition, distribution, utilization, consumption of, or engaged in any transaction
involving any tobacco product, EDS, Shisha, Vape, and the like. Such matter must be
promptly repofted to Business Bureau, for appropriate action, in case a ceftain business
establishment is found to be part thereof.
SECTION 15. REVIEW OF ANTI-SMOKING ORDINANCE - The VRU shall
conduct a review of the provisions provided in this Ordinance every five (5) years, or
whenever the agenry deems it necessary to amend the provisions provided in this
Ordinance, to ensure the relevance, and appropriateness of the regulations and submit
the same to the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod, for amendment.
SECTION 16. INFORMATION. EDUCATION, AND COMMUNICATION
CAMPAIGN - There shall be a Public Information Drive regarding the implementation of
this Ordinance and it shall be headed by the City Information Office (CIO) in close
coordination with the Department of Education XI (DepEd XI), the Commission on Higher
Education XI (CHED XI), Technical Education and Skills Development Authority XI OESDA
XI), Business Bureau, Davao City Police Office (DCPO), Vices Regulation Unit (VRU), the
Public Safety and Security Office (PSSO), the Civil Security Unit (CSU), the City Economic
Enterprise (CEE), the City Health Office (CHO), the City Social Welfare and Development
Office (CSWDO), and other enforcing and implementing agencies. Information
dissemination through signages, flyers, audio-visual presentations, and other forms of
public information dissemination shall be established.
SECTION 17. IMPLEMENTING RULES AND REGULATIONS (IRR) - The VRU
shall promulgate such rules and regulations, with the approval of the City Mayor, as are
necessary to ensure the effective implementation of this ordinance.
Absence of the Implementing Rules and Regulations (IRR) of this Ordinance shall
not preclude the enforcement of the provisions of this Ordinance.
SECTION 18. FUNDING - An amount of Five Million Pesos (P5,000,000.00) shall
be appropriated by the City Government of Davao in its Annual Budget or in any
Supplemental Budget, as the case may be, to carry out the purposes of this Ordinance.
SECTION 19. REPEALING CLAUSE - Any Ordinance, local issuances, or rules
inconsistent with the provisions of this Ordinance are hereby repealed or modified,
accordingly.
In this regard, Davao City Ordinance No. 0367-L2, SERIES of 2012, otherwise known
as "The New Comprehensive Anti-smoking Ordinance of Davao CiWi' as amended by
Davao City Ordinance No. 037-L9, SERIES of 20t9, is hereby repealed.

Page 14 of t4
Ord. No. 0472-24
SECTION 20. SEPARABILIW CTAUSE- If, for any reason, any SECTION or
provision of this Ordinance is declared unconstitutional or invalid, other sections or
provisions hereof which are not affected thereby, shall continue to be in full force and
effect.
SECTION 21. EFFECTMW- This Ordinance shall take effect fifteen (15) days
upon approval, posting and publication in a newspaper of local circulation.
ENACTED, on the t6s day of April 2024, by a unanimous vote of all the Members
of the Sanggunian, there being a quorum.
CERTIFIED CORR,ECT:
n &r,u,x \ /,"--
CHARITO N. SANTOS
Secretary to the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod
(City Government Department Head II__
ATTESTEDI
ATTESTED:
Mavor.
,,y
J. MELcF{KB. eurrArN JR.
lvice Mayor
Presiding Officer
cns/ray
AppRovED: l'lAY162024
2024
SE
DUTERTE
v
H. LAYOG
Actin
inistrator
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING ORDINANCE NO. 0367-12, SERIES OF 20L2, OTHERWISE KNOWN AS
YHE NEW COMPREHENSIVE ANTI-SMOKING ORDINANCE OF DAVAO CTY," AS AMENDED BY
oRDINANCE NO. 037-19, SERIES OF 2019, TO INCLUDE PROVISIONS PROTECTING VULNERABLE
MINORS FROM SMOKING AND TOBACCO USE
ATTY.