2oth ciry Council
3d Regular Session
SERIES of 2024
PRESENT:
Vice Mayor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
ABSENT:
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
J. Melchor B. Quitain Jr.
Marissa S. Abella
Nilo M. Abellera Jr.
Bai Hundra Cassandra Dominique N. Advincula
Al Ryan S. Alejandre
Dante L. Aposto! Sr.
Conrado C. Baluran
Jessica M. Bonguyan
Louie John J. Bonguyan
Pilar C. Braga
Augusto Javier G. Campos III
January N. Dutefte
Edgar P. Ibuyan Jr.
Diosdado Angelo Junior R. Mahipus
Rodolfo M. Mande
Kristine May John Abdul Mercado
Bonz Andre A. Militar
Temujin B. Ocampo
Alberto T. Ungab
Lorenzo Benjamin D. Villafuerte
Trisha Ann J. Villafuefte
Jesus Joseph P. Zozobrado III
Luna Maria Dominique S. Acosta
Bernard E. Al-ag
Wilberto E. Al-ag
Jonard C. Dayap
Richlyn N. Justol-Baguilod
Myrna G. L'Dalodo-Ortiz
Presiding Officer
- On Special Privilege Leave
- On Special Privilege Leave
- On Special Privilege Leave
- OB- Attended the PCL
Coordination and Planning
Meeting at Dusit Thani
Lubi Plantation, Mabini,
Davao de Oro
ORDINANCE NO. 0393-24
SERIES ol2O24
AN ORDINANCE INSTITUTIONALIZING THE PROGRAMS,
SERVICES, PRMLEGES, AND BENEFITS FOR SOLO PARENTS
AND THEIR CHILDREN, APPROPRIATING FUNDS THEREOF AND
FOR OTHER PURPOSES PURSUANT TO REPUBLIC ACT NO. 8972,
AS AMENDED By REPUBLIC ACT NO. 11861, KNOWN AS THE
EXPANDED SOLO PARENTS WELFARE ACT

Page 2 of L2
Ord. No. 0393-24
Be it ordained by the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod of Davao City, in session
assembled, that:
SECTION 1. TITLE. This Ordinance shall be known as the *SOLO
PARENTS'ORDINANCE OF DAVAO CITY'.
SECTION 2. DECIARATION OF POLICY. The City of Davao adheres to
the declared policy of the State as provided in SECTION 2 of iepublic Act No. 11g61,
otherwise known as the Expanded solo Parents welfare Act. The city shall,
therefore, assist in every way possible the solo parents in raising of their families
and in providing their children a better future hoping that -such efforts will
contribute greatly to the continued realization of a ,.child riiendly city".
SECTION 3. DEFINITION OF TERMS. For purposes of this Ordinance and
pursuant to Republic Act No. 8972, as amended by Republic Act No. 11861, the
following terms shall mean:
a) Solo Parents - refer to unmarried, separated, annulled, widower and
widowed individuals, and any person, whether male or female, falling under
the enumeration provided under SECTION 4, Republic Act No. 11861 and its
Implementing Rules and Regulations (IRR), who have taken the sole
responsibility of parenthood.
1. A woman who got pregnant as a result of rape and other crimes
against chastity even without a final conviction of the
offender: Provided, That the mother keeps and raises the child;
2. A widow left solo or alone to take responsibility for the children;
3. A person who has a spouse left solo or alone with the responsibility of
parenthood while the spouse is detained or is seruing sentence for a
criminal conviction for at least three (3) months;
4. A person left solo or alone with the responsibility of parenthood due
to physical and/or mental incapacity of spouse as certified by a public
medical practitioner;
5. Parent left solo or alone with the responsibility of parenthood due to
legal separation or de facto separation from spouse for at least six (6)
months;
6. Parent left solo or alone with the responsibility of parenthood due to
declaration of nullity or annulment of marriage as decreed by a court;
7. Any other person who solely provides parental care and suppoft to a
child or children;
B. Abandonment by the spouse for at least six (6) months;
9. spouse or any family member of an overseas Filipino worker (oFW),
or the guardian of the child or children of an oFW: provided, That the
said oFW belongs to the low/semi-skilled worker category and is
away from the Philippines for an uninterrupted period of twelve (12)
months: Provided, fufther, that the oFW, his or her spouse, family
member, or guardian of the child or children of an oFW falls under
the requirements of Republic Act No. 11861;

Page 3 0f 12
ord. Ni 0393-24
10. Unmarried mother or father who keeps and rears the child or
children;
11. Any legal guardian, adoptive or foster parent who solely provides
parental care and support to a child or children;
12. Any relative within fourth (4th) civil degree of consanguinity or
affinity of the parent or legal guardian who assumes parental care
and suppoft of the child or children as a result of the death,
abandonment, disappearance or absence of the parents or solo
parent for at least six (6) months: Provided, That in cases of solo
grandparents who are senior citizens but who have the sole parenta!
care and support over their grandchildren who are unmarried, or
unemployed and twenty-two (22) years old or below, or those twentytwo (22) years old or over but who are unable to fully take care or
protect themselves from abuse, neglect, cruelty, exploitation, or
discrimination because of a physical or mental disability or condition;
13. A pregnant woman who provides sole parental care and support to
the unborn child or children.;
b) Abandonment - refers to the absence by one spouse, followed by
prolonged absence without just cause;
c) Children or dependents - refer to those living with and dependent upon
the solo parent for suppoft who are unmarried, unemployed and twenty-two
(22) years old or below, or those over twenty-two (22) years old but who
are unable to fully take care or protect themselves from abuse, neglect,
cruelty, exploitation, or discrimination because of a physical or mental
disability or condition; Provided, that children or dependent/s entitled to be
suppofted beyond the age of majority shall be limited to those who are in
school or in training for some profession, trade or vocation, consistent with
and as provided in Afticle 194 of Executive Order No. 209 (E.O. No. 209), or
The Family Code of the Philippines; Provided, fufther, That this definition
shall only apply for purposes of availing of the benefits under this Act";
d) Parental Responsibility - with respect to their minor child, shall refer to
the rights and duties of the parents as deflned in Afticle 220 of Executive
Order No. 209, as amended, otherwise known as the "Family Code of the
Philippines";
e) Flexible Work Schedule - refers to a work arrangement granted to solo
parent employees to vary the arrival time and depafture in the workplace
without affecting the core work hours as defined by the employer;
f) Parental Leave - refers to leave benefits granted to a solo parent to
enable the performance of parental duties and responsibilities where physical
presence is required or beneficial to the child;
g) Basic Necessities - are goods vital to the needs of consumers for their
sustenance and existence. For purposes of this Ordinance, basic necessities
shall include:

I
Page 4 of L2
ord. No. 0393-24
1. All kinds and variants of rice;
2. Corn;
3. All kinds of bread excluding cakes and other kinds of pastries;
4. Bath soap;
5. Alcohol;
6. Fresh, dried and canned fish, and other marine products including those
frozen and in various modes of packaging;
7. Fresh pork, beef and poultry meat;
8. All kinds of fresh eggs except quai! eggs;
9. Potable water in bottles and containers;
10. Fresh and processed milk including milk labeled as food supplement;
11. Fresh vegetables including root crops;
12. Fresh fruits;
13. Locally manufactured instant noodles;
14. Coffee and coffee creamer;
15. All kinds of sugar except sweeteners;
16. All kinds of cooking oil;
17. Salt;
18. Powdered, Iiquid or bar laundry and detergent soap;
19. Household Liquefied Petroleum Gas, not more than 11 kgs. LpG content
once every five (5) months bought from LpG dealers; and
20. Kerosene, not more than 2 liters per month;
h) Infant and Child Rearing Necessities - are those which are vital to the
needs of infants, and children under six (6) years of age. These items are,
but not limited, to the following:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
Baby's milk;
Sanitary diaper;
Bath soap;
Alcohol;
Micronutrients and supplements;
Medicines, vaccines, vitamins, and other medical supplements prescribed
to the baby and/or child;
i) Prime Commodities - refer to goods not considered as basic necessities
but are essential to consumers. For purposes of this Ordinance, commodities
shal! include;
1. Flour;
2. Dried, processed, and canned pork, beef, and poultry meat;
3. Onions and garlic;
4. Vinegar, patis, and soy sauce; and
5. Toilet/Bath soap;
j) School Supplies - shall mean an item commonly used by a student in the
course of study and includes the following list of items:

Page 5 of t2
Ord. No. A3%-24
1. Paper (including pads);
2. Crayon;
3. Ruler;
4. Scissors;
5. Ball pen;
6. Glue/paste;
7. Folders;
8. Envelope;
9. Notebooks;
10. Pencils;
11. Eraser;
12. Sharpeners;
k) Consultation and Laboratory Diagnostic - any procedure conducted for
diagnostic purposes that are necessary for the diagnosis of the solo parents
and/or their child/children. It shall include procedures such as:
1. X-rays;
2. Blood chemistry exams;
3. Hematology;
4. Urine analysis;
5. Serology; and
6. Blood banking;
l) Psychological Assessment - any procedure conducted for diagnostic
purposes that are necessary for the diagnosis of the mental health of solo
parents and/or their child/children.
SECTION 4. INCORPORATION OF WELFARE SERVICES, PRIVILEGES
AND BENEFITS. Notwithstanding that the mandate under Republic Act No. 8972,
as amended by Republic Act No. 11861, is unto the nationa! government, its
agencies, and instrumentalities, by this local legislation, the City of Davao formally
imposes upon itself, and its agencies, and eill other government agencies within the
City, the obligatiOn to provide the solo parents and their children the welfare
seruices and special privileges and benefits that the law has enumerated such as
liveliho-od' assistance, counsgllng, parent effectiveness, critical incident stress
debriefing, among others. ncdrc.riirgt'y, tlEleninent piouisionr om-"prOlic Act No.
8972; as amended by Republic Act No. 11861, are hereby considered written and
included in this Ordinance.
sEcrIoN 5. CRITERIA FoR suppoRT To BE A solo PARENT. Any
solo parent falling under SECTION 3 of this Ordinance and who is at the same time
exercising sole parental care and support of the child or children is entitled to claim
the benefits of solo parent under this Ordinance: Provided, That a solo parent shall
not lose his or her status as solo parent if th€i other parent provides occasional
assistance and/or seasonal gifts that do not meet the legal requirement of support
under the Family Code of the Philippines: Provided, fufther, That the absence of a
valid and legal marriage between the mother and father of a child or dependent
does not automatically entitle either individual to the benefits under this Ordinance
if the factual circumstances demonstrate that parental care and suppoft are shared.

Page 6 of L2
ord. No. 0393-24
SECTION 6. WORK DISCRIMINATION. No employer shall discriminate
against any solo parent employee with respect to terms and conditions of
employment on account of his/her status.
SECTION 7. SERVICES AND BENEFITS FOR SOLO PARENTS. IN
addition to the welfare seruices, privileges and benefits provided by law, solo
parents who are residents of the City and/or their children shall be entitled to the
following privileges and benefits, to wit,
a) Medical Assistance - A ten percent (10o/o) discount and exemption from
the value-added tax (VAT) on baby's milk, food and micronutrient
supplements, and sanitary diapers purchased, duly prescribed medicines,
vaccines, and other medical supplements purchased from the bifth of the
child or children until six (6) years of age of a solo parent who is earning less
than Two Hundred Fiflry Thousand Pesos (P250,000.00) annually, subject to
adjustment in accordance with the provisions on the exempt taxable income
under the National Internal Revenue Code (NIRC), as amended by Republic
Act No. 10963, otherwise known as the 'Tax Reform for Acceleration and
Inclusion (TRAIN)': Provided, That nothing in this SECTION shall violate the
provisions of Republic Act No. 10028, otherwise known as the Expanded
Breastfeeding Promotion Act of 2009;
b) Death and Burial Assistance - A solo parent who is earning minimum
wage and below shall be entitled to the additional death benefit or burial
assistance of One Thousand Pesos (P1,000.00) aside from the amount of
Two Thousand Pesos (P2,000.00) already being given by the City
Government, without prejudice to increasing the Same at the Mayor's
discretion when the City's budget so permit, upon the death of the solo
parent's child. Provided, That the solo parent under this SECTION is not a
recipient of any other cash assistance or subsidy from any other government
programs: Provided, finally, That a beneficiary who is also a senior citizen or
a person With Disability (PWD) may continue receiving senior citizen or PWD
benefits without forfeiting the benefits under this AcU
c) Livelihood Assistance - Solo parents shall have priority in the grant of
livelihood assistance under any of the qualification requirements under
existing Ordinances, rules and regulations.
d) Flexible Work Schedule - Solo parents shall be granted flexible work
schedules in their time of arrival and departure from the workplace without
affecting the core work hours provided by the employer.
e) parental Leave - In addition to leave privileges under existing laws, a
forfeitable and noncumulative parental leave of not more than seven (7)
working days with pay every year shall be granted to any solo parent
employee, regardless of employment status, who has rendered seruice of at
least six (6) months: Provided, That the parental leave benefit may be
availed of by solo parent employees in the government and in the private
sector.

PageT of LZ
0 Social Safety Assistance - During disasters, calamities, pandemics, and
other public health crises as may be declared by the Department of Health
(DOH), solo parents and their children, who are residents of Davao City are
entitled to social safety assistance such as food, medicine, and financial aid
for domicile repair located within the jurisdiction of the City, subject to the
guidelines of the CSWDO.
g) solo-Parent Monetary subsidy Registered solo-parents who are
residents of Davao City who are earning a minimum wage and below shall
be given One Thousand Pesos (P1,000.00) monthly subsidy.
h) Psycho-Social Interuention Assistance - During disasters, calamities,
pandemics, and other public health crises as may be declared by the DOH,
the solo parents and their children, who are residents of Davao City are
entitled to Psycho-Social Interuention Assistance such as stress debriefing,
psychological assessment, and psychological interview.
i) Discounts
1. Ten Percent (10o/o) discount in the purchase of necessities and prime
commodities not exceeding Five Thousand Pesos (p5,000.00) in grocery
stores and supermarkets whose gross income is not less than Two
Hundred Fifty Thousand Pesos (P250,000.00) a month.
2. Ten Percent (100/o) discount for medicines and vitamins not exceeding
Five Thousand Pesos (P5,000.00);
3. Ten Percent (10o/o) discount on basic school supplies;
4. Ten Percent (10o/o) discount on consultation and laboratory diagnostic in
all private laboratories;
5. Ten Percent (10olo) discount on the total bil! of the solo parent in
restaurants and other food establishments;
6. Ten Percent (10o/o) discount and exemption from value-Added Tax (vAT)
in the purchase of infant and child rearing necessities;
7. Ten Percent (10o/o) discount on medical related bills.
In cases where the solo parent is also a senior citizen or Person With
Disability entitled to a discount under his/her valid senior citizen or person
With Disability Identification Card (ID), the solo parent shall use either
his/her PWD ID Card or Senior Citizen ID card or solo parent ID to avail of
the discounts provided herein.
sEcrroN 8. CREATIoN oF THE soLo PARENT DlvrsroN. A solo
Parent Office is herein created which shall be under the superuision of the City
Social Welfare and Development Office.
SECTION 9. REGISTRATION OF SOLO PARENTS. The Solo Parent
Division herein created shall undeftake a city-wide registration of all the solo
parents and their children in the One Hundred Eighty-Two (182) barangays of the
City for purposes of obtaining, among others, information on their names, ages,
addresses, income including the source thereof, number of children per solo paient
and the circumstances of being solo.

Page 8 of Q
Ord. No. 0393-24
SECTION 10. REOUIREMENTS FOR SOLO PARENT ID. The following
shal! be the documentary requirements for the issuance of the Solo Parent ID:
1. Voter's ID or Ceftification that the applicant is a registered voter of the City
or Barangay Certification ceftiffing that the applicant for Solo Parent ID is a
resident of the barangay for at least one (1) year;
2. PSA Birth Ceftificate of the child/children;
3. Ceftification from the Barangay Captain indicating the status of the applicant
as a solo parent or supporting documents such as Declaration of Nullity of
Marriage, Ceftificate of No Marriage (CENOMAR), death ceftificate of the
spouse, or medical certificate from a public medical practitioner if the spouse
is mentally or physically incapacitated; and
4. Application Form provided by the City.
SECTION 11. ASSESSMENT OF SOLO PARENTS. An applicant who
manifests the need for assistance under this Ordinance is subject to an assessment
by a social worker of the City Social Welfare and Development Office (CSWDO).
The assessment shall cover, but not limited to, the following:
a. Determination of the applicant's category as enumerated in SECTION 3,
paragraph "a" of this Ordinance and the provisions of Republic Act No. 8972,
as amended by Republic Act No. 11861, including the provisions of its
Implementing Rules and Regulations;
b. Evaluation of the needs of the applicant and his/her children as basis for
provision of the appropriate service and interuention as required under
SECTION 4 of this Ordinance;
c. Identification of the level of the readiness of the applicant to receive a
pafticular seruice/assistance, which shall serve as basis for the conduct of
social preparation activities prior to the provision of such seruice/assistance;
and
d. Identification of existing and potentially available resources that may support
the applicant and his/her children;
SECTION 12. PROCEDURE FOR ACCESSING SERVICES. A person who
needs assistance under this Ordinance and Republic Act No. 11861 shall comply
with the following process:
a. Visit the City Social Welfare and Development Office of his/her residence to
manifest his/her need for assistance and furnish the documentary
requirements as required under SECTION 9 of this Ordinance;
b. Fill out the application form for the assistance indicating, but not limited to,
the following information:
1. Name
2. Age
3. Address/Area of Domicile
4. Income per month
5. Source/s of income
6. Number of children
7. Circumstances of being solo;

Page 9 of !2
Ord. No. 0393-24
c. Undergo the necessary process as stipulated in SECTION 10 of these Rules;
d. Upon the favorable evaluation of the social worker of the City Social Welfare
and Development Office (CSWDO) taking into consideration Sections 3, 4,
LL, 12 and 14, a Solo Parent Identification Card shall be issued to the solo
parent within fifteen (15) days upon application duly signed by the city
Social Welfare and Development Officer and the City Mayor;
The Solo Parent Identification Card shall be necessary in availing the benefits
under this ordinance which shall be valid for one (1) year only, but may be
renewed subject to a new assessment and evaluation:
For the public's information and guidance, a list of persons who applied and
those who were able to avail of the benefits under this Ordinance shall be
made available by the City Social Welfare and Development Office which
processed their applications.
SECTION 13. PROCEDURE FOR APPLICATION OF BENEFITS. Proof of
membership and entitlement shall be presented by the solo parent and/or his/her
children to avail of the above benefits granted under this Ordinance.
An applicant who was determined by a social worker to be eligible for
assistance may apply for benefits under this Ordinance through the following:
a) The solo parent may go to the agency providing such benefit bringing with
him/her the Identification Card issued by the City Social Welfare and
Development Office;
b) undergo the necessary qualifying activities required by the agency as
prescribed by the Rules implementing RA 11861; and
c) Comply with the requirements set forth by the agenry providing the seruice
for the duration of the assistance (i.e. schooling, housing) subject to existing
rules of the agencies concerned.
SECTION 14. ISSUANCE OF PURCHASE BOOKLET. Purchase booklets
issued by the City Social Welfare and Development Office to solo parents for free
must contain the following basic information:
a) Solo Parent ID number;
b) Booklet control number;
c) Name of solo parent;
d) Sex;
e) Address;
0 Date of bifth;
g) Picture;
h) Signature or thumb mark of solo parent;
i) Logo of Davao City;
j) Signature of the City Mayor; and
k) Signature of the Chief of the City Social Welfare and Development Office.

Page 10 0f 12
Ord. No. 039?l-24
SECTION 15' DISQUATIFICATION. An individual shatt be disquatified
fromanyoftheentit]emeffiinanceintheinstanceiof,butnot
limited to, the following:
1) Change of civil status from single to married;
2) When the other biological parent provides occasional assistance that meets
the requirements of support under the Family code of the philippines.
3) when the individual cohabits with another person who then provides
financial assistance with respect to the educational, medicat and financial
means in favor of the child of the solo parent that meets the requirements of
support under the Family Code of the philippines.
SECTION 16.
. The
following shall be the grounos ror tne termination of benenE o? tne solo parent:
a) Cessation of the sole parental authority over the children as a resutt of the
solo parent's spouse's subsequent release from detention as a service of
penalty;
b) The child to whom the solo parent exercises parental authority, who
becomes more than 18 years of age is capable of taking care of himself;
c) Change in the income of the solo parent whose income falls above the
povefi threshold as required under SECTION 4 of this ordinance;
SECTION 1'. PROgE'URE
'9R
T=RMINAT'ON O' B=NE,I,S. ThC
following shall be the proceduffi
benefits:
a) A solo parent shall manifest to the City Social Welfare and Development
office (CSWDO) his/her intention to withdraw from availing the benefits
under this Ordinance;
b) If the solo parent does not voluntarily manifest his/her intention to terminate
the provision of benefits and seruices before the lapse of one year, the
cswDo shall conduct the necessary assessment/evaluation to ascertain if
grounds for termination and withdrawal of benefits exist;
c) The Identification Card shatl cease to be effective upon the lapse of one year
from issuance, unless renewed based on a new assessment and ararrutio,u
d) The solo parent shall be informed of the result of the assessment/evaluation
and termination of the seruice, if warranted, through written notice. The
termination shall take effect thirty (30) days from the receipt of the notice of
termination. In cases when the seruice cannot be terminated in a period of
one (1) month, the seryice shall be completed until its due time. The"*r
National Housing Authority (NHA) and other participating housing ug"n.iu, ,
shall issue the guidelines in the termination of housing benefits p.io"o in
the Implementing Rules and Regulations of RA 11g61; and
.---j
e) The solo parent and his/her children shatl undergo psychosocial counseling
with the social worker to prepare them for independent living. The
termination of said benefits shall be without prejudice to re-applicagon
should the circumstances so warrant.

Page 11 of L2
Ord. No.0393-2tl
SECTION 18. SOLO PARENTS' DESK. A Solo Parents' Desk is hereby
created which shall be under the direct superuision of the City Social Welfare and
Development Office with the following functions:
a) Develop a comprehensive social development and welfare program for solo
parents and their children which shall include those herein listed;
b) Coordinate and work with appropriate offices and agencies of the
government in providing such welfare seruices, privileges and benefits to the
i ntended benefi cia ries;
c) Assist in the organizational matters of the solo parents'organization; and
d) Exercise such other powers and peform such other duties and functions as
may be assigned by the City Mayor or may be prescribed by law or
ordinances.
The City Mayor shall appoint or assign personnel for the Solo Parents' Desk who
shall be primarily responsible in the overall management of the program and
accomplishment of the law's objectives.
The City encourages'and gives its full suppoft to the solo parents'right to organize
themselves for purposes beneficial to its members.
SECTION 19. SOLO PARENTS' WEEK. Every last week of April mandates
the celebration of Solo Parents'Week to give due recognition to the City's solo
parent residents.
SECTION 20. APPROPRIATION PROVISION. The City Government of
Davao shall appropriate from the General Fund an amount deemed proper for the
implementation of this Ordinance and shall be included in the budget of the
concerned agency following the approval of this Ordinance.
SECTION 21. IMPLEMENTING RULES AND REGULATIOIIS. A Rules
Committee shall be composed of the following agencies and offices:
1. The Chairman of the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod (SP) Committee on Women,
Children, and Family Relations as Chairman;
2. The Head of the City Social Welfare and Development Office;
3. The Representative of the City Mayor's Office;
4. The President of the Solo Parents Federation;
5. The City Legal Officer;
6. The Chairman of the SP Committee on Education; and
7. The Chairman of the SP Committee on Social Services, as members.
SECTION 22. REPEALING CLAUSE. Any provision of ordinances, rules and
regulations and/or parts thereof inconsistent with the provisions of this Ordinance
are hereby repealed and/or modified accordingly.
SECTION 23. SEPARABILITY CLAUSE. Should any portion or provisions
of this Ordinance be declared unconstitutional or invalid, the other parts or
provisions hereof which are not affected thereby shall continue to be in full force
and effect.

t.
Page 12 of L2
Ord. No..0393-?-4
SECTION 24. EFFECTMTY. This Ordinance shal! take effect upon its
approval and after publication in a newspaper of general circulation in Davao City.
ENACTED, on the 25th day of January 2024, by a unanimous vote of all the
Members of the Sanggunian, there being a quorum.
CERTIFIED CORRECT:
n ofu,ufr-l^^.
CHARTTO N. flANTOS
Secretary to the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod
(City Government Depaftment Head lt)F
ATTESTED:
/
J. MELCV6R B. QUITAIN JR.
/ Vice Mayor
Presiding Officer
cns/ray
APPROVED:
FFB 2 g 2024
2024
s
Z. DUTERTE
t
ATTESTED:
ATTY. F
MARK H. LAYOG
Administrator
Acti
AN ORDINANCE INSTITUNONALIZING THE PROGRAMS, SERVICES, PRIVILEGES, AND BENEFITS FOR
SOLO PARENTS AND THEIR CHILDREN, APPROPRIATING FUNDS THEREOF AND FOR OTHER
PURPOSES PURSUANT TO REPUBUC ACT NO. 8972, AS AMENDED By REPUBLIC ACT NO. 11861,
KNOWN AS THE EXPANDED SOLO PARENTS WELFARE ACT OF 2OOO
ciV rtavp