REPUBLIC OF TEIE P"HILIPPINES
OFFICE oFTIIE C:ITY MaYoR
clryogn*fuAo :
Ref. No. CAdO-032025-92
2ND INDORSEMENT
May 15,2025
Respectfully returned to Ms. Charito N. Santos, Secretary to the SANGGUNIANG
Panlungsod, this City, the within Legal Opinion No. 244, SERIES of 2025 dated March 27,
2025, from the City Legal Office, relative to the attached duly signed and approved
Ordinance No. 0192-23, SERIES of 2023 entitled, "THE ANTI-BULLYING ORDINANCE OF
DAVAO CITY", for your information and appropriate action.
this doqJment.
ATTY. FRANCIS MARK H. LAYOG
City Administrator
o>aO{S-4 Q
5o t , q1o1
RETHASED
For the City Mayor:
Digilafy srgned by Layog
^
FEncis Mark Honar€s
*
lffill
Date:2025-05-15 10:10:46
l"
t{g' Ag* remrheaurhord
l'lAY 16 ?I?5
G csiq
LrLlAt'r. ilALBINA
ADMIN|ETRAnVE A|DE u ro, 35
TIME:
-
coNTAnT NO. ln82\ rdr-10n0 t.oc.222
rlP
lt'oc
r0t?
4te-D
DAY*",@
2nd Floor, City Hall Building, San Pedro St., Davao City
A 241-1000 Y cmo@davaocity.gov.ph
LIFC
II
'iETE
ie
socoYEc
.{r
a;
)
I
:l'rf
+
F"r
l; .':

Office of the City I.eBd Officer
LEGAL OPINION ttO. L{4
Ref. No. CLO-2025-1054
"RE: ORDINANCE NO. 192-23 SERIES
*THE ANTI.BULLYING ORDINANCE OF
r* INDoRSEMEilT
March 27,2025
ATTY.
Approved by:
ATTY. OSMU
p. VTLLANUEVA, JR.
SERIES OF 2025 o3 9: ?e
7L
.r
I ltirrrl
.r r Jl
tt
@
tH}
Respectfully forwarded to the Office of the City Mayor, through the Office
of the City Administrator, both this City, the herein Ordinance No. 192-23, SERIES
of 2023, informing your end that the enactment of the same is well within the
powers of the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod citing SECTION 16 of Republic Act 7160,
otherwise known as the Loca! Government Code of 1991 to wit:
ion 76, General Welfarc, - Every loal government unit shall
exercise the powerc expressly granted, those necessarily implied therefrom,
as well as powes necessary, appropriate, or incidental for its efficient and
effective governancel and those which are essential to the promotion of the
general welfare. Wthin their respective teritoial jurisdictions, local
government unib shall ensure and suppor{, among other things, the
preseruation and enichment of culturq promote health and safetv
enhance the right of the people to a balanced ecology, encourage and
support the development of appropriate and selFreliant scientific and
technological capabilities, improve public morals, enhance economic
prosperity and social justicq promote full employment among their
residenb, maintain peace and order, and preserue the comfoft and
convenience of their inhabitants.
IN VIEW OF THE FOREGOING PREMISES, it is recommended that the
Ordinance be approved.
Respectfi.rlly submitted.
C,TY Otr DHVHO
CITY LEGAL OFFICE
RE
DA'IE:,KF,flqFD
Acting City Legal Officer
Date of approval: March 27,2025
rIME
BAY O
Room 24, City Hall Bdlg., San Pedro St., D.vao City
rar
!rFE
at
illl
a zca-6szo / 241-1000 Loc. 267,225,230 E clo@davaocity.eov.ph

Office of the City t3gel Offlcer
Ref. No. CLO-2025-1054
LEGAL oPrNroN No.44
SERIES OF 2025
"RE: ORDINANCE NO. 192-23 SERIES OF 2O2? ENTITLED
*THE A]{TI-BULIYING ORDINANCE OF DAVAO CITY"
1"t INDORSEMENT
March 27,2025
Respectfully forwarded to the ffice of the City Mayor, through the Office
of the City Administrator, both this City, the herein Ordinance No. 192-23, SERIES
of 2023, informing your end that the enactment of the same is well within the
powers of the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod citing SECTION 16 of Republic Act 7160,
otherwise known as the Local Government Code of 1991 to wit:
*tion 76. General Welfarc, - Every local government unit shall
exercise the powerc expressly granteQ those necessarily implied therefrom,
as well as powes necessary, appropriatq or incidental for iB efficient and
effective governancel and those which are essential to the promotion of the
general welfare. Wthin their respective territorial jurisdictions, local
government units shall ensure and support, among other things, the
preseruation and enichment of culture, promote health and safeU,
enhance the right of the people to a balanced ecology, encourage and
support the development of appropriate and self-reliant scientific and
technological capabilities, improve public morals, enhance economic
prosperlty and soclal justlcq promote full employment among thetr
residents, maintain peace and order, and preserue the comfort and
convenience of their inhabitants.
IN VIEW OF THE FOREGOING PREMISES, it is recommended that the
Ordinance be approved.
Respectfu I ly su bmitted.
t
Approved by:
ATTY. OSMUNDO P. VrLI-ANUEVA, JR.
Acting City Legal Officer
Date of approval: March 27, 2025
HIE G.
Attomey IV
C.TY Oi: DHVpO
CITY LEGqL OFtrICE
RELEASED
DAY O
DATE:
TIME.
Room24, City Hall Bdlg., San Pedro St., Davao City
A zca-bslo / 241-1000 Loc. 267,225,230 E clo@davaocity.eov.ph
ia
3o@tlc

,
March 20,2025
SEBASTIAN Z. DUTERTE
City Mayor
crTy oF
07zttt - ?t
CITY LEGAL O
IGE
RE
DATE:
TIME.
NAME:
ROW
Pursuant to Sub-SECTION 3, Paragraph C, SECTION 469, Article One, Title Five,
Chapter 3, Book III and SECTION 54 of Book I of Republic Act No. 7160, otherwise
known as the Local Government Code of 1991, we are furnishing you a copy of
Resdutkln $b. glf3#r-Xt, SERIES ot2022 and OrdinanceNo. Otgh&, SERIES *2023,
of the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod, entitled 'THE ANTI-BUIIYING ORDINANCE OF
DAVAO CITY't for your information, guidance and appropriate action.
For and in the absence of the City Government
Department Head II:
4?
MA. THERESA A. REYES
Acting City Government Department Head II
(City Government Assistant Department Head II)
t
Sir:
$$rrPflls
eomnlsr*{rvEar'oitrr 2,
ffi
I
t.
$
qL
l'|,'.ii 2 C 2325
L'FE
IS HERE
io j--
\
tsAV O
3F, SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod, San Pedro St., Davao City 8000
I ZZZ-oaSs E sp@davaocity.govph
I
tocollc

2oth City Council
14fr Regular Session
SERIES of 2A23
PRESENT:
Vice Mayor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
ABSENT:
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Reprrblic of the PhitippinesOffice of the SANGGUNIANG Panhmgsod
Ciry of Dar.ao
J. Melchor B. Quitain Jr.
Marissa S. Abella
Nilo M. Abellera Jr.
Luna Maria Dominique S. Acosta
Bernard E. Al-ag
Al Ryan S. Alejandre
Dante L. Apostol Sr.
Conrado C. Baluran
Jessica M. Bonguyan
Louie John J. Bonguyan
Pilar C. Braga
Augusto Javier G. Gmpos III
Jonard C. Dayap
Edgar P. Ibuyan Jr.
Richlyn N. Justol-Baguilod
Diosdado Angelo Junior R. Mahipus
Rodolfo M. Mande
Bonz Andre A. Militar
Myrna G. L'Dalodo-Ortiz
Temujin B. Ocampo
Alberto T. Ungab
Lorenzo Benjamin D. Villafuefte
Trisha Ann J. Villafuefte
Jesus Joseph P. Zozobrado III
- Presiding Officer
OB - Attended the Liga
ng mga Barangay
Congress at
SMX
Convention Center
On Sick Leave
Bai Hundra Cassandra Dominique N. Advincula
Wilberto E. Al-ag
Edgar R. Ibuyan Sr.
Councilor Jaffar U. Marohomsalic
ORDINANCE NO. At92-23
SERIES of 2O23
THE ANTI-BULLYING ORDINANCE OF DAVAO CITY
a/

Page 2 or io '
Ord. No. 0t92-23
Be it ordained by the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod of Davao City, in session
assembled, that:
SECTION 1. IIIE - This Ordinance shall be known as "THE ANTI-BULLYING
ORDINANCE OF DAVAO CITY.'
SECTION 2. POUCY DECLARATION - It is hereby declared the policy of the
City of Davao to ensure that the fundamental rights of persons to life, liberty, property,
and security are promoted and protected. As a society composed of persons, the City
recognizes the impoftance of individuality and the free exercise thereof as an essential
ingredient of a well-functioning democracy. The practice of bullying, however, shall be
met with disdain as it is a form of abuse which serves to deprive others of the free
exercise of their own rights. In consonance with the national government's poliry under
Republic Act No. 10627 declaring acts of bullying as unacceptable, Republic Act No. 11313
where both men and women must be safe and secure not only in private but also in public
spaces, online, workplaces, and educational institutions, and other pertinent national
laws, all forms of bullying shall not be countenanced.
SECTION 3. ACTS OF BULLYING -"Bullying" as adopted from Republic Act No.
10627, shall refer to any severe or repeated act by one or more persons through a written,
verbal or electronic expression, or a physical act or gesture, or any combination thereof,
directed at another individual that has the effect of actually causing or placing the latter
in reasonable fear of physical or emotional harm to himself or damage to his propefi;
creating a hostile environment at the schoo!, workplace, or any other situation for the
individual; infringing on the rights of the individual; or materially and substantially
disrupting the education process or the orderly operation of a school, workplace, or any
other area, venue, or situation; such as, but not limited to, the following:
a) Any unwanted physical contact between the bully and the complainant, such as
punching, pushing, shoving, kicking, slapping, tickling, headlocks, inflicting pranks,
teasing, fighting and the use of available objects as weapons;
b) Any act that causes damage to an individual's psyche and/or emotional well-being;
c) Any slanderous statement or accusation that causes an individual undue
emotional distress, such as directing foul language or profanity at the target,
name-calling, tormenting and commenting negatively on an individual's looks,
clothes and body;
d) Cyberbullying or any bullying done through the use of technology or any
electronic means.
Bullying shall be further classified into four (4) aspects, namely:
a. Bullying in educational institutions
b. Bullying in the workplace
c. Cyberbullying
d. Bullying in other public places
Any person who commits the acts described above is considered a bully. Persons who,
through the acts described above, retaliate against another person who repofts acts of
bullying or who provides information during an investigation or is a witness under such
investigation, shall also be considered to have committed bullying.

Ord. No. 0L92-23
SECTION 4. ACTS OF BULLYING Iil EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS - RefeT
to any severe, or repeated use by one or more students of a written, verbal or electronic
expression, or a physical act or gesture, or any combination thereof, directed at another
student that has the effect of actually causing or placing the latter in reasonable fear of
physical or emotional harm or damage to his propefi; creating a hostile environment at
school for the other student; infringing on the rights of another student at school; or
materially and substantially disrupting the education process or the orderly operation of
a school, such as, but not limited to, the following:
1. Any unwanted physical contact between the bully and the victim like punching,
pushing, shoving, kicking, slapping, tickling, headlocks, inflicting school pranks,
teasing, fighting and the use of available objects as weapons;
2. Any act that causes damage to a victim's psyche and/or emotional well-being;
3. Any slanderous statement or accusation that causes the victim undue emotional
distress like directing foul language or profanity at the target, name-calling,
tormenting and commenting negatively on victim's looks, clothes and body.
Educational institutions covered under this Ordinance include public or private
schools, regardless of educational level, such as:
a) Preparatory schools;
b) Primary schools;
c) Secondary schools;
d) Colleges and universities, including post-graduate;
e) Vocational schools;
0 Review centers, tutorial centers, and other similar establishments;
g) Training institutions by virtue of education such as On-the-Job training as well as
other activities performed off-school, but for educational purpose/s.
Persons liable for bullying under this SECTION include, but are not limited to, the
following:
i. Students;
ii. Trainees, interns, exchange students, and volunteers;
iii. Teachers, student-teachers and non-teaching staff;
iv. School Administrators;
v. Parents and guardians of students;
vi. Other authorized persons within the school campus;
vii. Visitors.
All acts and repofts of bullying in the aforementioned institutions, and al! acts of
bullying by, among, and between the aforementioned persons shall be under the primary
jurisdiction of the educational institution concerned.
SECTION 5. ACTS OF BULLYING IN THE WORKPI-ACE. Acts of bullying in the
workplace can be defined as the intentiona! and repeated less favorable treatment of a
person by another or others in the workplace, which may be considered unreasonable
and inappropriate workplace practice, but excludes acts which necessarily fall under
management prerogative and discipline done in good faith and without violating
employee rights. Management prerogative here refers to the employer's inherent right to
regulate, according to his own discretion and judgment, all aspects of employment,
including hiring, work assignments, working methods, the time, place and manner of
work, work supervision, transfer of employees, lay-off of workers, discipline, dismissal,
and recall of employees.

Ord. No. 0L92-23
Workplace bullying includes, but is not limited to, behavior that intimidates,
offends, degrades or humiliates a worker, possibly in front of co-workers, clients,
customers, vendors, visitors, and other persons in a workplace setting or outside therof,
by reason of such employment.
Acts of bullying in the workplace include the acts previously enumerated under
and other acts such as, but not limited to:
a. Frequently intimidating or undermining employees by demeaning their work
standards, not giving them credit, setting them up for failure, and reminding
them of old mistakes;
b. Uninterrupted threatening of employees' personal self-esteem and work
status;
c. Continuous isolation of employees from opportunities, information, and
interaction with others;
d. Repeatedly giving impossible deadlines, creating undue pressure and stress,
and overworking employees;
e. Giving constant and unfair criticism;
f. Persistent blaming without factual justification;
g. Frequently making unreasonable demands;
h. Giving hostile glares and other intimidating gestures repeatedly;
i. Constant yelling, screaming, and swearing;
j. Purposely excluding or isolating a coworker repeatedly;
k. Frequently sending aggressive emails or notes;
l. Incessant monopolization of supplies and other resources;
m. Persistently engaging in excessive social bantering, teasing, and humiliation;
n. Deliberately insulting others and taking paft in behind-the-back put-downs
repeatedly;
o. Monitoring another excessively in a continuous manner;
p. Repeatedly stealing credit for other employees'work, except when the nature
of the work is collective or commissioned.
SECTION 6. CYBERLIBEL - Cyberlibel is the unlawful or prohibited acts of libel
as defined in Afticle 355 of the Revised Penal Code, as amended, committed through a
computer system or any other similar means which may be devised in the future.
Computer system refers to any device or group of interconnected or related
devices, one or more of which, pursuant to a program, performs automated processing
of data. It covers any type of device with data processing capabilities including, but not
limited to, computers and mobile phones. The device consisting of hardware and software
may include input, output and storage components which may stand alone or be
connected in a network or other similar devices. It also includes computer data storage
devices or media.
SECTION 7. ADDRESSING BULLYING IN EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIOilS
-All educationa! institutions are hereby directed to adopt policies to address the existence
of bullying. Such policies shall be regularly updated and, at a minimum, shall include
provisions which:
A.Identify the range of disciplinary administrative actions that may be taken
against a respondent for bullying or retaliation which shall be commensurate
with the nature and gravity of the offense: Provided, that, in addition to the
disciplinary sanctions imposed upon a respondent of bullying or retaliation,
he/she shall also be required to undergo a rehabilitation program which shall
be administered by the institution concerned. The parents of the said
respondent shall be encouraged by the said institution to join the rehabilitation
program.
'i

Page 5 of 10.
O'rd. No. 0L92-23.
B. Establish clear procedures and strategies for:
1. Reporting acts of bullying or retaliation;
2. Responding promptly to and investigating reports of bullying or retaliation;
3. Restoring a sense of safety for a victim and assessing the student's need
for protection;
4. Protecting from bullying or retaliation of a person who reports acts of
bullying, provides information during an investigation of bullying, or is
witness to or has reliable information about an act of bullying; and
5. Providing counseling or referral to appropriate services for respondents,
complainants, and appropriate family members of said students.
C.Enable students to anonymously report bullying or retaliation: Provided,
however, that no disciplinary administrative action shall be taken against a
respondent solely on the basis of an anonymous report;
D.Subject a student who knowingly makes a false accusation of bullying to
disciplinary administrative action;
E. Educate students on the dynamics of bullying, the anti-bullying policies of the
school as well as the mechanisms of such school for the anonymous reporting
of acts of bullying or retaliation;
F. Educate parents and guardians about the dynamics of bullying, the anti-bullying
policies of the school and how parents and guardians can provide support and
reinforce such policies at home; and
G.Maintain a public record of relevant information and statistics on acts of bullying
or retaliation in school: Provided, that the names of students who committed
acts of bullying or retaliation shall be strictly confidential and only made
available to the school administration, teachers directly responsible for the said
students and parents or guardians of students who are or have been victims of
acts of bullying or retaliation.
All educational institutions shall provide students and their parents or guardians
a copy of the anti-bullying policies being adopted by the school. Such policies shall
likewise be included in the school's student and/or employee handbook and shall be
conspicuously posted on the school walls and website, if there is any. Training
programs, courses, or activities which shall provide opportunities for school
administrators, teachers, and other employees to develop their knowledge and skills in
preventing or responding to acts of bullying shall also be performed in these educational
institutions.
SECTION 8. ADDRESSING BULLYING IN THE WORKPLACE - WOTKPIACCS
are mandated to adopt anti-bullying policies as necessary in line with the demands of
their industry. However, all public and private offices and establishments in the City are
directed to also adopt the mandatory policies and guidelines issued by the Civil Seruice
Commission (CSC), City Human Resources Management Office, and Department of Labor
and Employment (DOLE) in order to address bullying and other similar acts in the
workplace.
Workplaces categorized under the informal sector and those which do not require
registration with DOLE are not covered under this SECTION and acts of bullying complained
shill lnstead be considered as bullying in other public places as provided covered in the
next succeeding SECTION.

Ord. No. 0L92-23
SECTION 9. BULLyIilG Iil OTHER PUBUC PTACES - This type of bullying
covers those acts generally done outside of the educational institution or workplace, and
also covers those acts done in a workplace as categorized under SECTION 8, paragraph 2.
SECTION 10. ADDRESSING BULLYING IN OTHER PUBLIC PLACES - IN
order to address bullying in other public places, Anti-Bullying Desks (Desk) shall be
created in all Barangays and/or District Centers in the city. The existing Women and
Children Protection Desk Officers, Violence Against Women (VAW) Desk Officers, or their
equivalent in the barangays shall also be empowered to act as Anti-Bullying Desk Officers.
They shall be responsible for the enforcement of anti-bullying policies at the barangay
level.
Any person may report acts of bullying before the Desk in the Barangay where the
offense was committed. The Desk shall have the authority to make a preliminary inquiry
into the repofted case. Should the Desk determine that the act complained of is either in
an educational institution or a workplace setting, the complaint shall be forwarded to the
proper anti-bullying mechanism of the workplace or educational institution concerned.
The Desk shall refer all proper identified cases of bullying under this SECTION to the
Barangay Justice System of the barangay where the offense was committed. Every report
of bulLying and any proceeding which concerns a minor shall at all times be represented
and assisted by the legal guardian or next of kin, in the presence of a social worker or
equivalent person.
Every person who admits to or is found to have committed bullying under the
Barangay Justice System shall be also be required to undergo a period of counseling and
rehabilitation.
SECTION 11. RESOLUTION OF BULLYING CASES - Bullying cases shall be
deemed resolved when:
a. It has been determined with finality by the appropriate body that no act of
bullying took place;
b. There has been a settlement between the parties and the conditions of the
same have been complied with; and
c. There has been a determination that bullying has been committed, and the
respondent(s), the complainant(s), and their immediate families have
undergone the requisite disciplinary measures and rehabilitation/ interuention
procedures, as may be provided in the concerned institution's internal
mechanisms.
When a case is deemed resolved, no liability under this Ordinance shall ensue.
Non-resolution of cases may be considered a ground for Iiability under SECTION 19 of this
Ordinance.
SECTION 12. CREATION OF A CITY ANTI-BULLYING COUNCIL - The City
shall establish the City Anti-Bullying Council (CABC), which shall be responsible for the
establishment of policies related to bullying. These policies shall include, among others,
the formulation of necessary education, prevention, counseling and interuention
measures. The CABC may, in the pefformance of its functions, request the list of bullying
complaints from educational institutions, workplaces, and barangays, in order to effect
the purposes of this Ordinance and of related national laws against bullying. The CABC
shall convene regularly at least once a month.

Ord. No. 0L92-23
All barangays, offices, committees, and bodies responsible for anti-bullying policies
within their respective institutions and establishments are also required to submit to the
CABC copies of these policies within one (1) year from the effectivity of this Ordinance.
The CABC shall initially be composed of representatives from the following, and
may be reconstituted as required under its internal rules:
a. City Mayor - Chairperson
b. City Social Welfare and Development Office - Vice-Chairperson/Secretariat
c. SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod Committee on Civil, Political, and Human Rights -
Member
d. SANGGUNIANG Kabataan Federation - Member
e. SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod Committee on Education, Science and Technology, Arts
and Culture - Member
f. Special Office for Children's Concerns - Member
g. City Schools Superintendent/Depaftment of Education - Member
h. Commission on Higher Education - Member
i. Department of Labor and Employment - Member
j. Davao City Police Office/Women and Children Protection - Member
k. Philippine Mental Health Association - Member
l. Liga ng mga Barangay Representative - Member
m. Representative from Inter-faith Organizations/NG0 Representative - Member
n. Representative from Medical Doctor from the Davao Medical Society - Member
SECTION 13. CREATION OF CITY ANTI-BULLYING DESK - The City
Anti-Bullying Desk (Desk) shall be created within any appropriate depaftment of the City
Social Welfare and Development Office (CSWDO), and shall be responsible for the
effective implementation of this Ordinance.
The Desk shal! oversee the other Anti-Bullying Desks in Barangays and District
Centers. The Desk shall also function as the secretariat of CABC, and shall handle the
day-to-day affairs of the latter.
The Desk is tasked to receive complainb of bullying in the city, and is empowered
to forward cases to the proper forum for prompt disposition.
SECTION 14. CREATION OF AN ANTI.BULLYING HOTTINE . An antibullying telephone hotline shall be created, which shall entertain calls for reporting of
instances of bullying, requests for assistance or rehabilitation, psychosocial suppoft, and
other bullying-related concerns. This hotline shall be free of charge and shall maintain
the privary and confidentiality of its callers. In addition to this telephone hotline, online
chat or email accessibility shall also be established, obseruing the same level of privacy
and confidentiality as its telephone counterpart.
SECTION 15. REHABILTTATION, INTERVENTION AND DTVERSION AND
COUNSELING - An Interuention and Diversion program shall be designed for minor
offenders who are held liable by the courts under this Ordinance. As for adults found
liable, the Mental Health Division of the City Health Office (CHO) shall design and
implement an appropriate counseling program.
SECTION 16. BULLYING PREVENTION MONTH - The month of October shall
hereby be declared as the Davao City Bullying Prevention Month. During the said month,
the City shall organize events and activities related to its anti-bullying policy. During this
month, entities that are found compliant with the requisites for addressing bullying in
their respective institutions shall be duly recognized and declared a Bullying-Free
Establishment

Ord. No. 0L92-23
SECTION L7. ADMINISTRATIVE LIABIUTY FOR INACTION OR
NON - RESOLUTION OF CASES- Educational institutions and/or workplaces which fail
to take action on repofts of bullying or fail to administratively resolve cases of bullying
within their respective jurisdictions as required may be held liable as follows:
a. First Offense: The educational institution and/or workplace concerned shal!
be invited to appear before the CABC to explain the reason for the
non- resolution within the required period. Should the explanation be found
unjustifiable and/or unsatisfactory, the educational institution or workplace
shall be cited for violation of this Ordinance and be subject to an administrative
fine of FIVE THOUSAND PESOS (PhP5,000.00).
b. Second Offense and Subsequent Offenses: Subsequent offenses by any
educational institution and/or workplace shall warrant the payment of an
administrative fine of FIVE THOUSAND PESOS (PhP5,000.00). The CABC may
also recommend for the denial, for those entities required by law, of the
application for renewal of the business permit issued by the Office of the City
Mayor.
The CABC shall further recommend to the proper authorities the filing of a
complaint against the educational institution and/or workplace concerned, in accordance
with pertinent substantive and procedural rules and relevant issuances of the Department
of Education, the Commission on Higher Education (CHED), the Department of Labor and
Employment (DOLE), the Civil Service Commission (CSC), the Department of the Interior
and Local Government (DILG), or any government agenry or instrumentality having
jurisdiction over the entity being complained of, as may be applicable.
SECTION 18. PENALTIES - Persons at the age of majority who, having been
administratively found to have committed acts of bullying or entered into settlement
agreements in their respective forums, but willfully refuse or unjustifiably fail to comply
with the conditions and penalties imposed upon him/her, shall be punished by
imprisonment from three (3) to six (6) months and/or a fine ranging from THREE
THOUSAND PESOS (PhP3,000.00) to FIVE THOUSAND PESOS (PhP5,000.00), at the
discretion of the court.
The aforementioned persons, whether a minor or an adult, shall also be required
to enroll themselves into an appropriate intervention program which includes a
combination of the following:
a. Counseling for the perpetrator(s)/bully(ies), and in case of minors,
including their parents or guardians, as the court may deem fit;
b. Training, seminars and lectures on:
i. Anger Management Skills;
ii. Problem-solving and/or Conflict Resolution Skills;
iii. Values Formation; and
c. Payment for cost of treatment
The program may be administered by duly licensed private therapists and
counselors. For indigents, the court may direct the Mental Health Division to perform
the necessary counseling.

SECTION 19. CONFIDENTIALITY OF RECORDS AND PROCEEDINGS - AII
records and proceedings involving minors, from initial contact/reporting until the final
decision of the case shall be considered privileged and confidential. The public shall be
excluded during the proceedings and the records shall not be disclosed directly or
indirectly to anyone by any of the parties or the participants in the proceedings for any
purpose whatsoever. Parties privy to the proceedings are not allowed to disclose any
information regarding any proceeding, unless for the purposes of proceedings which are
under this Ordinance.
SECTION 20. IMPLEMENTING RULES AND REGULATIONS - The City Social
Welfare and Development Office (CSWDO), in conjunction with the CABC, shall take
charge in the creation of the Implementing Rules and Regulations of this Ordinance within
one hundred twenty (120) days after its effectivity.
SECTION 21. INFORMATION DISSEMINATION - A city-wide awareness
campaign on the city's anti-bullying poliry, as encapsulated in this Ordinance, shall be
implemented using tri-media, on-ground, and online platforms.
Educational institutions are required to include the city's anti-bullying policy in their
school orientations, school handbooks, and other information materials. Regular lectures
on the prevention of bullying and other bullying-related topics shall be done in educational
institutions and workplaces with the aid of organizations like the Philippine Mental Health
Association and other similar entities.
SECTION 22. SUPPLETORY APPLICATION - Related existing laws on
Anti-bullying and Mental Health such as RA No. 7877, or the Anti-Sexual Harassment Act
of 1995; RA No. 9262, or the Anti-Violence Against Women and Their Children Act of
2004; RA No. 11313, or the Safe Spaces Act, and other related laws, shall find suppletory
application.
SECTION 23. SEPARABILITY CLAUSE - If, for any reason, any SECTION or
provision of this Ordinance shall be declared unconstitutional or invalid, other sections or
provisions hereof not affected by such declaration shall continue to be in full force and
effect.
SECTION 24. REPEALING CLAUSE- AII Ordinances, Resolutions, Executive
Orders, Memoranda and Administrative Regulations or part thereof in conflict or
inconsistent with the provisions of this Ordinance are thereby repealed, amended or
modified accordingly.
SECTION 25. EFFECTMTY-This Ordinance shalltake effect immediately upon
publication in the manner provided by law.
ENACTED, on the 13h day of April 2023, by a majority vote of all the Members of
the Sanggunian, there being a quorum.
CERTIFIED CORRECT:
^ Ati\ l'"t'
cliAnfro N.rsANros
Secretary to the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod
(City Government Depaftment Head IIJ.
Ord. No. 0t92'23

I
t
ATTESTED:
ATTESTED:
B. QUITAIN JR.
Vice Mayor
Officer
cns/kjtq
.Page 10 of 10
Ord. No. 0L92-23
2023
Z. DUTERTE
J
ATTY.
APPROVED:
MAR 2 I 2025
cirv vavy
J
H. LAYOG
THE ANTI-BULL)TNG ORDINANCE OF DAVAO CITY