REfifiIKHU
c
TllrlE:
BI:
DATE:
ffiB
. Republic of the Philippines
OFFTCE OF THE CTryMAYOR
4th Endorsement
27 June20t6
Respectfully returned to Ms. CHARfTO N. SANTOS, Secretary to the
SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod, this City the herein documents relative to City Ordinance No.
0515-16, SERIES Of 2016 entitled ,AN ORDINANCE GRANTING AUTHORITY TO THE CITY
GOVERNMENT OF DAVAO, THE ]OINT VENTURE AGREEMENT (VA) TO BE ENTERED
INTO BY AND BETWEEN THE CTTY AGREEMENT OF DAVAO AND MEGA HARBOUR PORT
AND DEVELOPMENT, INC. RELATIVE TO THE DAVAO COASTLINE AND PORT
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT" duly approved by City Mayor Rodrigo R. Duterte.
For your information and appropriate action.
Thank you.
RODRIGO R. DUTERTE
City Mayor
By:
ATTY
D. DALUMPINES
*
/lcsp
RELEASED
b . 7o >lA
Second Floor, City Hall Building, San Pedro St., Davao City
(O82) 227 -257 7 . (082) 224- 587 I . d ava oc itym ayo r@g m a i l.co m
lty'r-tr.
Qr'
Q-o7z
I
J.

OFFICE OF THE CITY LEGAL OFFICER
REF. NO. 1131
3'd Indorsement
June 23, 2016
RESPECTFULLY RETURNED to the Office of the City Mayor, through Atty.
Nathaniel D. Dalumpines, Chief-of-Staff, both this city, the herein approved
dOCUMCNIS TCIAIiVC tO thc ]OINT VENTURE AGREEMENT TO BE ENTERED INTO BY
AND BETWEEN THE CIry GOVERNMENT OF DAVAO AND MEGA HARBOUR PORT
AND DEVELOPMENT, INC., relative to the Davao Coastline and Port Development
Project, with the attached copies of duly signed MOA, which documents have been
duly notarized as requested.
RESPECTFU LLY SUBMITTED.
ATTY. M
.TORENTERA
Attorney IV
Noted by:
ATTY. OSMUN
. VILLANUEVA, JR.
Acting
Legal Office
_lk_
,Trif
ctTy

,aoxJ
f,ffieJ,$'
oacislG
O
2nd Endorcenent
22 June20l6
By:
A
*
EL D. DALUMPINES
ief-of-Staff
*
4t t0 4t184 P. +a
Respectfully for,ruarded to ATTY. osMUNDo p. uLl-ANUEyA, JFt, Acting city
Legal Officer, City Legal Office, this City the herein docurnents rehtive to City Ordinance
No, 0515-16, SERIES of 2016 entitled 'AN ORDINANCE GRANTING AUTI-{ORITY TO THE
CITY @VERNMENT OF DAVAO, THE JOINT VENTURE AGREEMENT (JVA) TO BE
ENTERED INTO BY AND BETWEEN THE CITY AGREEMENT OF DAVAO AND MEGA
HARBOUR PORT AND DEVELOPMENI INC. RELATIVE TO THE DAVAO COASTLINE AND
PORT DEVELOPMENT PROIECI-'with the information that thb has been duly signed by
Engr. Vlctor S. Sorrgco of Mega Hai'bour Port arrd Deveiop'rrcnt irrc. and the City i"iayor
Rodrigo R. Duterte.
For your inforrntion, notarial and acknornrledgment.
Thank you
RODRIGO R. DUTERTE
City Mayor
lksp
f^--'-
Second Floor, City Hall Building, San Pedro St., Davao City
(082) 227 -257 7 . (082) 224- 587 8 . d avaoc itym ayo r@ g m a i l.co m
.f
.
'Republic of the Philippines
OFFTCE OF THE CTTYMAYOR

itFF l1:g ,,r!- !'Bk r.;t t \( A'1,-' "i,-. , €;W;
Rl[. Il2r gtTv liir',.L truilutNC
cA\,'A+ Cl iU ,
(
'1bG')clt'lf,
qii
nepuuilE or
City of Davao 3so
@tfirc of tbe {"itt I[egst @tficer
Ref. No. 1131-15
r"'TNDoRsEMENT
April 25, 2AL6
Respectfully forwarded to the Office of the City Mayor, through the
Office of the City Administrator, both this City, the herein attached
documents relative to the Ordinance No. 0515-16 SERIES of 2016 entitled'AN
ORDINANCE GRANTING AUTHORITY TO THE CITY MAYOR TO ENTER INTO
AND SIGN, FOR AND IN BEHALF OF THE CITY GOVERNMENT OF DAVAO, THE
JOINT VENTURE AGREEMENT (VA) TO BE ENTERED INTO BY AND BETWEEN
THE CITY GOVERNMENT OF DAVAO AND MEGA HARBOUR PORT AND
DEVELOPMENT, INC., RELATIVE TO THE DAVAO COASTLINE AND PORT
DEVELOPMEN PROIECT" with the loint Venture Agreement hereto attached
and with the information that the enactment of the subject ordinance per se
is well within the realm of SECTION 455 (b) (1) (vi) of Republic Act 7L6O,
otherwise known as the Local Government Code of 1991, However this office
invites attention to the contents of the loint Venture Agreement specifically
SECTION 7 of the subject Joint Venture Agreement on distribution of proceeds
which provides for the 20 (City of Davao) to B0 (MHPDC) sharing.
Clearly, the said distribution of proceeds provided in SECTION 7 of the
subject Joint Venture Agreement is not a ground for disapproval of the same,
involving as it does wisdom rather than legality thereof. The question
therefore of whether the sharing is fair and reasonable involves the
application of judgment and while the PPP Board and the SANGGUNIANG
Panlungsod have given the imprimatur on the matter, this office is of the
view that the IVA be executed with deepest prudence.
IN VIEW THEREOF. this office recommends the approval of the subject
ordinance with a corresponding caveat as above interposed.
RES PECTFULLY SUBMITTE D
ATTY. MAR
A. GALLO, RSW
IV
t.e@0
I
R
Approved by:
ATTY. OSMUN
vILLANUEVA,, JR.
Acting
Legal Officer
Date of Approval: April 25, 2At6
$qffiCffiEVffiM
t,
S*n oa
o
No.
rl
U
0ate
3D'45-bl
,
t

r\-.,
Republika ng Pilipinas
TANGGAPAN NG SANGGUNIANG PANLT]NGSOD
LUNGSOD NG DABAW 3@
April 19,2016
0 101
r1
RODRIGO R. DUTERTE
City Mayor
,
C)
Sir
ffilboott f.u
Pursuant to Sub-SECTION 3, Paragraph C, SECTION 469, Article One, Title
Five, Chapter 3, Book III and SECTION 54 of Book I Republic Act No. 7160,
otherwise known as the Local Government Code of 1991, we are furnishing
you a copy of Resolution No. 02788-16 and Ordinance No. 0515-16, both
SERIES of 20 16 of the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod, for your information, guidance
and appropriate action.
Very truly yours,
^ 0),wvr^ l,
CHARITO N.
Secretary to the
Panlungsod
(City Government Department Head II)
RECH!VED
CMO " CRD
cns/psm
jo- lrQtN'
*

I?u, City Council
14tt RryrlerErh
SERIES of 2O16
PRE8Etr}
Councilor
Councilm
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Counc.ilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Crruncilor
Council,or
OIf OFFICI.IL BIISItrES8:
Vice Mayor Faolo Z. Dutr,rte
Councilor April Marie C. Dayap
AESET]T:
Victorio U. Advincula JrNilo M. Abellera Jr.
Maria Belen S. Aeseta
Eecnard E. Al-ag
Al Ryan S. Alejanclre
tore$n T. Avila
Kad,o S. Bell,o
Jmnne M. Bonguyan-Quilo,s
Louie John J, Bonguyan
Danilo C. Dayang,hirang
Jimmy O. Dureza
Edgar R, Ibtryan Sr.
Iffih A. Ubrado-Yap
Re.ne Elias C. Lopez
John-Christopher T. Mahamud
Dioadado AngeJo A. Mahipus Sr,
Bonifacio E- Militsr
It{yrna G. L'Dalodo-Ortiz
Antoinette G. PrincipeCashodes
Halila Y. Sudagar
Mary Joselle D, Villafuerte
RacheJ P, T"ozobrado
January N. DutF,rte
Tornae J, Montsverde IV
Marisna P, Salyador-Abella
- Tem1rcrary Preeiding Oftcer
- Annual Anniversary of
Paquibato District Tribol
Council
- On Sic.k laave
- Crn Domestic Ernergenrry Lcave
onDlrrarcE x,. (}it3-16
Eslet of 2[Dl6
TI] OB}IITrcE GNTTTIf,(}.ilITHOnIT? I1O TIIE eITr l.t?fi,
TIO ffiEB ItrIE Til' gIG;, 31OE TrD Ir BIIITLF OF TIIE
cITr €(IIIERilf,m oF DAvto, TIIE rrolrT lrEmIIRt
,traffiErr Frr4 ro aE ErrEnED rrno ffi arD EErBtEn
?IIE CTr" GOVEf,ilTffT OP DAVAT' AIID IffiA IIABEOII'B
HoBr ttD DBlrEt oPxEtr, rl3e., BEr.a'rruE To rHE Dllrto
COTSTLIIiE ATD Plonrr DEUELOPIIErT PBIBIET

Page 2 of3
Ord. No.O515-16
Be it ordained b th* SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod of Danao Cily in session
assembled tlrat:
EEgHor l. TtrLE - This ordinance shall be kncmrn aa *Ar
OBI}ITArcE CNAT'NTB AITTHORIT? TO "HI
CIT? IA?OE 11o ErTEN
II|'NO AI|D sIGIITT B'OR AITD IT BEHTLF OF TIIE GITT G(}TERilETTT OF
DAVIO, TlrE JOItrT VEf,lnRt tCREilEm (JlIl| TlO BE ffiTERED IrTrO
EIr AI|D BBTTESI| TTIT CTTT GOIIEAMETT OT DAVAO AITD IEloA
HInEOUII PlOBr tfD DESlEil,{tPfEtrf, IIC., nll.f'IIVG ItO rtIE DwI('
GOTATI.IilE TTD F'OTT DIEIIEI,OPIETIT PBC,ECT;
SEcTIor 2. DrcLlrEATtoil ProLrcr.- seetion 4s, paragraph (b) (t)
(v$ of the Loc.al Governrne.nt Cocte provides in par! to wit
*For elficient. and economical governflnc.s the purpo,ce of which is the
genoral welfare of ttre city ancl its inhabitante pursuant to SECTION 16 of this
Cocle, the citjr mayor shall rie,pnose.nt the cifir in all its buainesa transf,ctions
and sign in its be.half all bonden contracte, and obligations, and such other
docume.nts upon authority of the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod or purtsuant to law
or ondinance"l
gEeTIor 3. JOIIIT llEfiltnt AIrnHEilr iJIIAl.- This is an
agnee.rnent to be ente.red into by and between ttre Cit5r Government of Dayao
ancl MEGA HARBOLIR Ponr AND DEVELOPMEI{T, IHC., for the
irnple.rne.ntation of the DAVAO COASTLINE AND PORf DEVELOPMEI.IT
PR(}JECT under the pe'rtinent provision of City Ondinnnce No. 0353- 12, SERIES
af 2O12, as amended by City Ordinance No. 0339-15, $eries of 2O15, entitled
"PROMOryINO pUBtIC PRMTE PARTNERSHIP {ppq IN F.INANCINO,
CONSTRIICTION, OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE OF tOCAt GOVERNME}IT
IN FRA STRI.I(trI.IRE OR DEVETOPMENT PR&IECITI';
grcTIOf *. AIffIIOnfff.- The Cit5r Mayor is he.refui granted lqislative
authori$ to e.ntsr into ancl Sgn, for and in belralf of the Cit5r Gove.rnrne.nt of
Darao, the Joint Ve.nture Agr*ament (JVA) to be ente.red into by and be.treen
the City Governrne.nt of Danao and MEGA HARB0UR poRT AND
DEVELOPMEI{T, INC., F(}R THE IMPTEMET.TTATION OF THE DAVAO
COAS'TLINE AND FORT DEVEIOPMENT PRCTJECT;
SECTIOII t. BEPAmHLfff CIllUSt - If for nry rreaaon.r arry SECTION or
provision of this Qrdinance is dee,lared unconstitutional or invalid, othe.r
sections or provision he.reaf not affectnd foi such dectamtion shall cantinue to
be irr full force and effec{
SECfiOf 16. EFfEgfXVITf.- This Ordinanca shall take efleet
immediate.$ u pon approval.
ETAGTED, the l'#h day of April, aol6, by a mqiority vote of all the
Merrrbers of the Sanggunia$, fherre being a. quorurnPage 3 of3
Ord. No.O51$16
CERTIF'TED CORRECT:
F'or and in the abcr€rnc€ of the Secretar5r:
M
ATTESTED:
AfTESfED:
City
Teuporary
Actfurg Secretar5r to the Sarrgguniang Eanlungsod
{Assnutant Secretary to the SANGGUNIANG *tt"ngsod}z
JR.
Officer
,lcrnlfq
APFROVED. APR 2 I 2ot6,,eot6
"ry
(r'( ,
aTrr. firyIltlEEOn v. gurTfir
C,ity lrUministratm

Y
|oint Venture Agreement
Davao Coastline and Port
Development Project
IOTNT VENTURE AGREEMENT
For the Davao Coastline and Port Development Proiect
- -
THE PUBLIC H INFORMED:
This AGREEMENT is entered into this 21$ day of June 2016 in the City of Davao,
Philippines, by and between:
THE CITY GOVERNMENT OF DAVAO, a local government unit of
the Republic of the Philippines, with its seat of goverrrment at Davao
City Hall, Davao City, represented herein by its Mayor, Hon. Rodrigo R.
Duterte, duly authorized by its SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod under
Ordinance No. 0515-16, SERIES o12016, and hereinafter referred to as the
City or Proiect Owner;
- andMEGA HARBOUR PORT AND DEVELOPMENT INCORPORATED
a corporation duly organized and existing under and by virtue of the
laws of the Philippines, with office address at 136 Malakas Street,
Dilimaru Quezon City, represented herein by its President, Engr. Victor
S. Songco, hereinafter called the Proiect Developer;
WITNESSETH THAT:
WHEREAS, Article X of the 1987 Constitution grants local autonomy and fiscal
autonomy to all local government units (LGUs) while SECTION 22 (d\ of Republic Act
No. 7160 otherrnise known as the 1991, Local Government Code (LGC) accords LGUs
full autonomy in the exercise of their proprietary functions and in the limitations
provided in the LGC and other applicable laws;
WHEREAS, SECTION '1,6 of the LGC, the general welfare clause, empowers the
Proiect Owner to exercise those powers expressly granted, those necessarily imptied
therefrom, as well as powers necessary, appropriate, or incidental for its efficient and
effective governance, and those which are essential to the promotion of the general
welfare, and SECTION 17@)(3)(vii) of the LGC mandates the Project Owner to provide,
among others, "infrastrucfure facilities intended to service the needs of the residents of
the [city] and which are funded out of [city] funds including but not limited to, [city]
r

.
Ioint Venture Agreement
I
.
Davao Coastline and port
Development Project
roads and bridges; inter-municipal waterworks, drainage and sewerage, flood control,
and irrigation systems; reclamation projects; and similar facilities";
WHEREAS, the Proiect Owner is in need of additional land area to
accommodate the growing demands for residential, commercial and institutional sites
due to the influx of migrants from the nearby provinces and expected population
growth as well as the increase in volume of trade in terms of agricultural producb for
export in Davao City;
WHEREAS, the Proiect Owner will submit an application to the Philippine
Reclamation Authority (PRA), for evaluation and endorsement to the National
Economic and Development Authori$r for the latte/s approval under Executive Order
No. L46, s. of 2013, of a reclamation and development project in the City covering an
area of 2l4hectares more or less, involving raw land reclamation and horizontal
developmen!
WHEREAS, the reclamation and development of the City coastline within the
territorial jurisdiction of the Project Owner will certainly be beneficial to the Proiect
Owner and its people in terms of increased taxes and employment opportunities;
WHEREAS, the Proiect Owner mo/, in accordance with Sections 3Q),16,170),
18, 22(d), 34, 35 and 36 of the LGC and Artide 66 of the Implementing Rules and
Regulations of the LGC, enter into joint ventures (|Vs) and such other cooperative
arrangements with people's organizations, NGOs or the private sector, to engage in the
delivery of certain basic services; capability-building and livelihood projects; develop
local enterprises designed to improve productivity and income; diversify agriculture;
spur rural industrialization; promote ecological balance; and enhance the economic
and social well-being of the people;
WHEREAS, the authority of the Proiect Owner to enter into ]Vs and to provide
its own guidelines and accept unsolicited proposals has been affirmed by the President
(Executive Order No. 7& s. of 2012), Office of the Secretary petter datld October 25,
2011), Department of justice (Opinion No. 1& s. of 2012), and Departrnent of Interior
and Local Government (opinions Nos. L1, s. of 201.4;1O s. of 2014;8 s. of 2014, and 47,
s. of2012);
WHEREAS, in luly 2, 2015, the City enacted Ordinance No. 0339-15, entitled
"An Ordinance Amending Ordinance No. 0353-12 Promoting Public-Private
Partnerships (PPP) in the Financing, Construction, Operation and Maintenance of
Local Government Infrastructure and Development Projects" (ordinance);

i
JointVenfure Agreement
i
.
Davao Coastline and port
Development Project
WHEREAS, on October 17, 2A1.4, the Proiect Developer submitted an
unsolicited proposal (UP) to the Proiect Owner and offered its experience, expertise
and financial capability to implement the reclamation project and to perform the
desired raw land reclamation and horizontal developmen! at no cost to the Proiect
Owner;
WHEREAS, the reclamation and horizontal development is in furtherance of the
Mission of the City, i.e., "to transfonn Davao City into a modern and well-planned
invesfinent center in Mindanao and the Asia-Pacific Region, propelled by socially
enlightened leaders and empowered citizewy, spiritually committed to attain
sustainable growth and optimum development within the context of balanced ecology"
and its Vision of becoming "the Socio-economic and Tourism Center in Mindanao, Eist
Asean Growth Area (EAGA) and the Asia-Pacific Region propelled by enlightened
leaders and empowered citizenry and committed to sustainable growth and
development under the guidance of Divine Providence";
WHEREAS, on October 20, 20'/.4, the Proiect Owner accepted the UP of the
Proiect Developer, acting on the recommendation of the Davao City Public-private
Partnership Board (DCPPPB) for negotiations with the proiect Developer;
WHEREAS, on December 19, 201.4, the Proiect Owner issued a Certificate of
Acceptance of the Unsolicited Proposal for purposes of entering into negotiations with
the Proiect Developer and conferring upon the Proiect Developer Original Proponent
Status;
WHEREAS, on March 25,May 14 and |une L, 2A15, the Proiect Owner, through
the DCPPPB, and the Project Developer conducted negotiations and on fuly 31,2015,
concluded the same and agreed to the terms and conditions of this Agreemen!
WHEREAS, on Ap.il A5,2016, through Resolution No.02788-16 and Ordinance
No. 0515-16 SERIES of 201.6, the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod (Sanggunian) authorized the
Mayor to sign on behalf of the Proiect Owner this Agreement with the Proiect
Developer;
WHEREAS, on October 23, 30 and November 6, 2015, after due publication of
an invitation for comparative proposals for the t?roject the Proiect Owner conducted a
Competitive Challenge pursuant to the Ordinance;
WHEREAS, no proposal from any private sector entity was received within the
period prescribed for the submission of comparative proposals. Hence, the proiect
Owner issued its Notice of Award on December L, 2015 to the Proiect Developer;
I
.i /

]ointVenture Agreement
Davao Coastline and Port
Development Project
WHEREAS, the Proiect Developer has complied with all conditions precedent
for the execution of this Agreemen! as provided in the Notice of Award;
NOW THEREFORE, for and in consideration of the foregoing premises and the
mutual commihents, obligations and undertakings assumed and accepted hereunder,
the parties have agreed as follows:
SECTION 1. DEFINITION OF TERMS
Whenever used in this Agreemen! the following terms shall be understood to
me,rn:
a. "Agreement" refers to this ]V Agreement including all attachments made as an
integral part hereof;
b. "Fonnal Acceptance" refers to the written acknowledgment by the Proiect
Owner that the completed Project is in accordance with the plans and
specifications and that it has been duly turned over to the Proiect Owner;
c. "DENR' refers to the Deparfinent of Environment and Natural Resources
including the divisions, bureaus and offices under i!
d. "Horizontal Development" refers to the provision of facilities such as roads,
bridges rt arty, sidewalks, open spaces, drainage, power line, telecommunicatiorg
water supply and similar facilities and amenities;
e. "M,OA" refers to the Memorandum of Agreement to be executed between the
Philippines Reclamation Authority (PRA) and the Proiect Owner;
t. 'NEDA" refers to the National Economic and Development Authority which
under Presidential Executive Order No. 1"46, s. of 2013 approves reclamation
projects based on the evaluation and endorsement of PR&
g. "Parties" refers to the Proiect ownerand Proiect Developer as ]v partners;
h. 'PEZA' refers to the Philippine Economic Zone Authorif, created under
Republic Act No. 79'1,6;

JointVenture Agreement
Davao Coastline and port
Development Project
i. "PPA' refers to the Philippine Port Authority, created under Presidentral Deciee
No. 505, as amended by Presidential Decree No. 857 and Executive Order No.
513;
i. "PRA" refers to the Philippine Reclamation Authority, formerly known as public
Estates Authority, created under Presidential Decree 1:O8Hr;
k. "Ptoiect" refers to the completion of raw land reclamation and horizontal
development of the 21.4 hectares more or less of foreshore and offshore areas of
Davao City, in accordance with the approved plans and specifications attached
hereto, as further described in SECTION 3 hereof;
l.
"Proiect Cost" refers to all expenses and costs to complete the Project consisting
of the raw land reclamation cost and horizontal developmeni cost, hereto
attached as Annex G;
m. "Raw Land Reclamation" refers to the process of filling up the area through the
we of dredge-fill and/ or land fill materials to the appropriate elevation,
contained and consolidated in accordance with the approved plans; and
n. "Usable Area" refers to the area of the Project after reclamatior; excluding roads,
parks, open spaces and other areas for utilities, which can be sold or devoted to
commercial, residential, institutional, office or other related uses.
SECTION 2. DOCUMENTS FORMING PART OF THE AGREEMENT
The following documents are hereby made an integral part of this Agreement:
Annex A - Sanggunian Resolution No. 02788-1,6
Annex B - Mega Harbour Port and Development Incorporated
Board Resolution No.16-06-09
Annex C - Master Development Plan
Annex D - Land Allocation Plan
AnnexE-LocationPlan
Annex F - Project Description
Annex G - Estimated Cost of Reclamation
Annex H - Reclamation and Development Schedule

JointVenture Agreement
Davao Coasfline and Port
Development Project
SECTION 3. SCOPE OF THE IV AGREEMENT
3.1. This ]V Agreement involves the Reclamation and Horizontal Development of 214
hectares more or less, of foreshore and offshore areas in the coastal bay within the
jurisdiction of the City of Davao, as reflected in the attached Land Allocation Plan.
3.3. The proposed Reclamation and Horizontal Development and Operation is targeted
to be constructed within 10 years from commencement thereof or upon the final
disposition of the Reclaimed Land, whichever comes earlier.
3.4. The Project Cost is Thirty Eight Billion Nine Hundred Fifty One Million Five
Hundred Thousand Pesos (PhP 38,951,500000.00).
3.5. The term of the ]V is fifty (50) years.
SECTION 4. OBLIGATIONS OF THE PARTIES
4.1. The Proiect Owner shall -
a. Contribute to the IV its rights and privileges to implement the reclamation
proiect both raw land reclamation and site development/horizontal
development, to the exclusion of any other person or entity;
b. Irritiate and coordinate with, and secure from PRA the necessary clearances,
approvals and permits, and facilitate execution of a Memorandum of Agreement
with the PRA for the undertaking of the Projec!
c. Assist the Proiect Developer in securing permits and licenses from the PPA to
operate and maintain the commercial port for containerized and noncontainerized cargoes;
d. Assist the Proiect Developer in securing and obtaining all government
approval/permits, licenses and authorizations necessary for the unintemrpted
prosecution and full implementation of the Projec!
3.2. The Horizontal Development shall be limited to construction of road networks.

Joint Venture Agreement
Davao Coastline and Port
Development Project
e. Provide road right of way and other easement rights from the other parties
necessary for the Project the cost of which shall be shouldered by the Proiect
Developer;
f. Assist the Proiect Developer in the consolidation of properties that will be
affected by the development of the access road leading to the Project Site;
g. Redevelop the Coastal Barangays from Barangay 22 to Barangay Bucana that
were occupied by informal settlers or relocate all of them to an area near their
dwellings to be provided by the Proiect Developer. Ensure that all the necessary
security precautions have been taken to prevent the return of such informal
settlers. A fund provided by the Project Developer for relocation or
redevelopment of the ,rea occupied by these informal settlers shall be used for
these activities;
h. Assist the Proiect Developer in bringing into the country all plants, equipmen!
machineries, apparatus, tools, articles, materials and other ancillary items
required to cary out and implement the Project to export the same for repairs,
replacement, modifications, and refurbishment and refurn them afterwards, and
to re-export them after use, availing of such incentives including any tax
exemptions in accordance with existing Philippine l,aws, rules and regulations;
i. Adopt all proper measures to enable the Proiect Developer to hire and engage
foreign personnel for the Project in accordance with existing Philippine laws,
rules and regulations;
i. Make representation and coordinate with PRA, NEDA, DENR and other
concerned government offices, for the issuance of the necessary approval/permit
for the project including, but not limited to, Proclamatioru Special Patent and
issuance of Certificates of Title for the areas covered by the Projec!
k. Apply to the PEZA for conversion of the reclaimed land into a Special Economic
Zone, and for the granting of applicable incentives in favor of the Proiect
Developer and/or its partners and/or assigns;
l. Comply with the Land Allocation Plan in the land distribution of the reclaimed
atea;
m. Grant, through the appropriate Sanggunian resolution, a ten-year exemption
from payment of Real Property Taxes (RPT) in favor of the Proiect Developer;

Joint Venture Agreement
Davao Coastline and Port
Development Project
n. Execute all the necessary documents for the full implementation of the Projecf
and
o. Notify in writing the Proiect Developer of any and all proposals for reclamation
in front of the Project Area that may be submitted to the Proiect Owner, and
allow the Proiect Developer to match the offer of the proponent within ninety
(90) days from notice. Otherwise, the Proiect Developer will be deemed to have
waived such right.
4.2.The Project Developer shall -
a. Undertake, at no cost to the Proiect Owner, the reclamation of 2'1.4 hectares of
land in the coastal area from Barangay Agdao towards Barangay Ecoland of
b. Identify and provide relocation site for the affected residents at the
commencement of the projec!
c. Provide a modern and state-of-the-art commercial port for containerized and
non-containerized with cargo handling equipment and information technology
infrastructure;
d. Undertake the development of the reclaimed land for industrial park,
commercial complex, and residential lots and houses;
e. Undertake the management and operations of the commercial port for
containerized and non<ontainerized cargoes;
t. Undertake the development of new ancillary port facilities that would spur
growth in tourism and cargo volumes;
g. Provide funds for the onsite redevelopment or for the relocation of the informal
settlers in the Proiect Site;
h. Prepare or cause to be prepared at its expense all necessary documents for
submission to concerned government agencies for the approval and
implementation of the Projecf

|ointVenture Agreement
Davao Coastline and Port
Development Project
i. Provide all funds for fees and assessments that may be required by the PRA and
other agencies to secure approvals, permit and clearances for the prosecution and
implementation of the Projec!
i. Frlly finance all raw land reclamation and horizontal development works
pursuant to the approved Land Forrn Plan and Master Development Plan;
k. Shoulder all expenses that may be incurred and attendant to the common
obligations of the Parties as enumerated in SECTION 4.3 hereof;
l.
Provide the manpower, equipmen! machinery, technology, m,rnagement and all
other support facilities for the full implementation of the Projecf
m. Provide and identify the source of filling materials for the Projec! including
alternative sources in case the source of filling materials previously identified be
inadequate, and comply with all government requirements for securing the
necessary permits and clearances for the utilization thereof;
n. Ensure that all foreshore and offthore areas of the Project shall be cleared of all
structures and all other obstructions which may impede or i. a.y way interfere
with the performance of works for the projec!
o. Implement the reclamation Project in accordance with the approved Master
Development Plan/Integrated Framework Plan;
p. Provide the funds necessary for the snrvey and titling of the reclaimed land;
q. Assist the Proiect Owner in facilitating the issuance of Proclamatioru Special
Patent, and Certificates of Title from concerned govemment offices;
r. Secure comprehensive insurance coverage for the Project including contractols
all risk, workmen's compensation and third party liability and provide the
Project owner with copies of all policies of insurance effected by it;
s. Post a performance security equivalent to one percent (1,%'y of Project Cost in
favor of the Proiect Owner before commencement of reclamation works, which
performance security, upon its consen! may be assignable to PRA if the latter so
requires;

Joint Venture Agreement
Davao Coastline and Port
Development Project
t. Obtain such other insurance and security that may be required by the Proiect
Owner, PRA or any other goverrunent agency to answer for environmental
damages and claims that may arise in the course of the execution of the projecg
u. Comply with all applicable provisions of the Ordinancg laws, and rules and
regulations of national and local application; and
v. Execute all documents that may be necessary for the full implementation of the
Project.
4.3. Common Obligations of the Parties
The Parties hereto shall -
a. Conduct public information campaign and consultations to promote
acceptability of the Project and its implementation;
b. Provide assistance to secure and comply with the necessary approval/permits,
clearances, consents, and licenses from concerned government agencies as may
be required for the prosecution and implementation of the Pro;'ec!
c. Cooperate with each other in alt stages of the Project to ensure smooth pursuit of
all project activities;
d. Protect and support the Project against any obiection, negative propagand4
litigation and similar opposition; and
e. Communicate to the other party any information that may affect the Project or its
timely implementation and completion.
SECTION 5. ST PERVISION OF THE PROJECT
The Parties shall form a Proiect Supervision and Monitoring Team with seven
members composed of five (3) representatives from the Proiect Owner, three (3)
representatives from the Proiect Developer and one (1) representative from the
Phitippine Reclamation Authority (PRA). Th" Project Supervision Team shall meet
regularly to monitor and supervise the Proiect Developer in all activities of the Projec!
including the preparation of necessary documents, application and issuance of permits
and clearances, performance of actual reclamation and development works, and all

JointVenture Agreement
Davao Coastline and Port
Development Project
other tasks necessary to be accomplished for the implementation and completion of the
Project. The Project Supervision Team shall be the contact and information center
between the Proiect Ovr'ner and the Proiect Developer for all the necessary
information, discussion, and mutual cooperation that the Project may require.
SECTION 6. IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PROIECT
6.1. Issuance of Reclamation Permit
6.1..1.. Immediately after the execution of this Agreement, the Parties shall
coordinate and negotiate with PRA the execution of a Memorandum of
Agreement (MOA) between PRA and the Proiect Owner involving the issuance
of reclamation permit and project implementation.
6.1.2. After the execution of the MOA with the PRA, the Proiect Owner shall
authorize and require the Proiect Developer to complete all requirements,
including but not limited to the approval and issuance by the DENR of an
Environmental Compliance Cerfficate (ECC) and Environmental Impact
Assessment (EIA). All expenses incidental to the completion of the
requirements and the issuance of the ECC and EIA shall be for the account of
the Proiect Developer.
6.1.3. The Proiect Developer shall also complete all requirements of other
government agencies, if any, prior to the issuance of the Reclamation Permit by
the PRA.
6.1,.4. Upon issuance by PRA of the Reclamation Permit, the Proiect Owner
shall within five (5) days from receipt thereof issue to the Proiect Developer
the Notice to Proceed. The Proiect Developer shall then post a performance
security bond equivalent to ten (10'/.) percent of the Project Cost before
commencement of reclamation works.
6.2. Actual Reclamation and Horizontal Development
6.2.1.. The Proiect Developer shall commence the reclamation and development
upon issuance by the Project Owner of the Notice to Proceed inclusive of all the
necessary approvals and reclamation and development permits by appropriate
goverrunent offices and agencies which has jurisdiction over the project and
shall complete work within a period of 10 years from commencement of the

;:Ti""3:ffi*'ffii:ll
Development Project
reclamation works. The approved Reclamation and Development Schedule
shall be followed by the Proiect Developer except when it is prevented from
doing so by force maieure which shall be deemed to refer to natural disaster,
storms and typhoons, acts God or lawful order of any court or government
agency, change in laws, rebellioq or other causes similar to the foregoing
which is beyond the reasonable control of the Parties. The occurrence of such
force majeure shall automatically extend the period for completion of the
Project and the periods specified in the Reclamation and Development
Schedule provided that the Proiect Developer shall prompt$ notify the
Proiect Owner of the delay caused by the occrurence of such event.
6.2.2. The Proiect Developer shall commence and complete the implementation
of the reclamation works according to the Reclamation and Development
fthedule, which will involve activities for msliliz.ation, reclamation, soil
improvement, construction of breakwaters and containment structures, and
other necessary works.
6.2.3. The Proiect Developer shall also perform the works for horizontal
development in accordance with the Reclamation and Development Schedule.
6.2.4. The Proiect Developer shall submit a monthly accomplishment report to
the Proiect Owner from the commencement of actual works, and comply with
the demand of the Proiect Owner to submit a report at any time deemed
necessary by the latter.
6.2.5. The Proiect Developer shall notify the Proiect Owner of the completion
of raw land reclamation to enable the latter, in coordination with PRA, to
inspect the reclaimed land.
6.2.6. Upon completion of all raw land reclamation and horizontal development
works, the Proiect Developer shall submit a final report to the Proiect Owner.
6.2.7. The Proiect Owner shall have a period of thirty (30) days from
submission of the final report within which to verify faithful compliance by the
Proiect Developer with the master development plans and specifications. The
Proiect Owner shall make a Formal Acceptance of the reclamation and
horizontal development works if it finds the completed Project in accordance
with the master development plans and specifications.

JointVenture Agreement
Davao Coastline and port
Development Project
6.3. Issuance of Proclamation, Special Patent and Certificates of Title, Real
Property Taxes, Formation of Subdivision Association, and Upkeep and
Maintenance of the Proiect.
6.3.1. Upon completion of the reclamation works, the Proiect Developer and
the Proiect Owner shall cause the survey of the reclaimed land and comply
with all the requirements as may imposed for the issuance of ProclamatiorL
Special Patent and Certificates of Title.
6.3.2. The Parties shall apply for and coordinate with PRA' DENR and other
government agencies the issuance of all approvals, Proclamation, Special
Patent and Certificates of Title to be issued in accordance with existing laws
and procedures. Upon receipt by the Proiect Owner of the Certificates of the
Title under its name, it shall, within thirty (30) days therefrom, convey to the
Proiect Developer the portion of the reclaimed lands pertaining to the latter.
The Proiect Owner shall execute, sign and deliver to the Proiect Developer the
necessary Deed of Conveyance or similar Deeds, and the titles and documents
necessary in order to convey to the Proiect Developer the titles of the Proiect
Owner over the portion of the reclaimed land pertaining to the Proiect
Developer as payment of its services under this Agreement, and finally to
enable the Proiect Developer to transfer the titles of the said portion in the
name of the Proiect Developer.
6.3.3. The Proiect Owner is exempted from Real Property Taxes and Real
Property Taxes due on the portion of reclaimed land pertaining to the Proiect
Developer shall therefore accrue only from the date of issuance of the Transfer
Certificate of Title in the name of the Proiect Developer or its designated
assignee.
6.3.4. If the Proiect owner refuse to accept the developed property being
turned over by the Proiect Developer, a top independent appraiser mutually
acceptable to both Project Owner and Proiect Developer, shall be requested to
appraise the Project to find out if the development undertaken by the Proiect
Developer conforms with the Proiect owney's approved plans and
specifications. Should the independent appraiser report/certify that the
Proiect Owner unreasonably refuse to accept the property, the Project having
conformed with the agreed plans and specifications, the property is deemed
accepted by the Proiect Owner and that costs of appraisal shall be borne by the
Proiect owner. on the other hand, should the Proiect owne/s nonacceptance of the turn-over is found to be based on meritorious grounds as
certified by the top independent appraiser, the Proiect Developer should

]ointVenture Agreement
Davao Coastline and Port
Development Project
continue with the development works until the developed property is
accePtable to the Proiect Owner or as deemed accepted by the Proiect Owner
as certified by the top independent appraiser and that costs of appraisal shall
be for the account of the Proiect Developer.
Sec.7. DISTRIBUTION OF PROCEEDS
7.1. Pursuant to the Land Allocation Plan (Annex D), the reclaimed area, inclusive of the
area that would be devoted for roads and open space, shall be distributed as follows:
Area Allocated
Percentage
Proiect Owner
A.92hectares
(inclusive of
roads/open spaces)
207o
Proiect Developer
171..69 hectares
(inclusive of major
thoroughfares)
8A%
Total Reclaimcd Area
274.67 hcctares
1-000/o
7.2.|n additioru the Proiect Developer shall turnover to the Project Owner the works
and development equivalent to One Billion One Hundred Eight Seven Million Five
Hundred Thousand Pesos (Php\,187,500,000.00) for the redevelopment of area or
relocation of informal settlers affected by the Project.
Sec. 8. RESCISSION OF THE AGREEMENT AND MATERIAL ADVERSE
GOVERNMENT ACTION
8.L. Rescission Due to Default or Breach
Subiect to the provisions of SECTION 10 hereof on Dispute Resolutiory either Party
may rescind this Agreement prior to its completion upon default or breach by the other
party of a material provision of this Agreement. Such rescission of this Agreement shall
not affect any accrued rights of the non-defaulting party or the liabilities of the

JointVenture Agreement
Davao Coastline and Port
Development Project
defaulting-party nor shall it affect any provision hereof which is expressly or by
implication intended to continue after such cancellation.
8.2. tn case of rescission of this Agreement by the Proiect Owner due to the
default or breach of the Proiect Developer, the Project Owner shall have the right to
continue the Project on its own or through another developer, subject to the provision of
SECTION 8.1 hereof.
8.3. Material Adverse Government Action
8.3.L Definition
Material Adverse Government Action means any national /local government
agency action which has a material adverse effect on any of the rights and
privileges of, or on the enjoyment and/or exercise thereof by, the Proiect
Developer under this Agreemen! or which has a material adverse effect on
the Reclamation and Development Schedule or the Proiect Developey's
ability to comply with its financial and/or other contractual obligations,
including but not limited to any of the following:
a Change in Law; or
the imposition of any new national or local tax, or change in
maximum rate of any national or local tax, in either instance except
value-added tax.
8.3.2 Consequences of a Material Adverse Government Action
If a Material Adverse Government Action occurs, the Proiect
Developer shall provide written notice to the Proiect Owner
thereof within thirty (30) days of becoming aware of the same with
supporting evidence. The Project Developer shall have the burden
of proving both the existence of any Material Adverse Government
Action and the effect (both as to nature and extent) which any such
Material Adverse Government Action has on its performance and
its costs or losses arising from the Material Adverse Government
Action.
If the Proiect Developer is rendered wholly or partly unable to
perform its obligations under this Agreement directly as a result of
i.
ii.
i.
u.

ur.
JointVenture Agreement
Davao Coastline and Port
Development Project
such Material Adverse Government Action, it shall be excused
from perfonnance of such obligations to the extent that it is unable
to perform on account of such Material Adverse Government
Action provided that:
(a) the suspension of performance shall be of no greater scope
and of no longer duration than is reasonably required by the
Material Adverse Government Action;
(b) the Proiect Developer shall make all reasonable efforts to
mitigate or limit the effects of the Material Adverse
Government Action on its performance of the Agreemen!
and
(c) when the Proiect Developer is able to resume performance
of its obligations under the Agreement it shall give to the
Proiect Owner written notice to that effect and shall
promptly resume performance of such obligations.
If a Material Adverse Government Action or combination of
Material Adverse Government Actions in the aggregate negatively
affects the Proiect Developey's cash flows by more than [x] Pesos
(fhn [x]) in present value terms over the duration of the Term
(calculated at the time the Proiect Developer claims such financial
threshold to have been met), and provided that the Proiect
Developer has taken all reasonable steps to mitigate the effects of
such Material Government Action and minimize its costs or losses
arising therefrom, the Proiect Developer shall immediately notify
the Proiect Owner to that effect. On or before the date that is seven
(7) days after such noffication, the Parties shall meet to discuss in
good faith how the Proiect Developer shall be compensated by the
Proiect Owner for such negative financial effect. Such
compensation may include either, or a combination of, an extension
of the Term, rescheduling of the Construction Schedule, and/or
such other remedies or compensation as may be agreed by the
Parties.
1,6

JointVenfure Agreement
Davao Coastline and Port
Development Project
iv
The Parties shall conduct negotiations in good faith for a period not
exceeding ninety (90) days from date of the Project Developey's
notification to the Proiect Owner under SECTION 8.3.2.L unless a
longer period is specifically provided or agreed among the Parties,
after whictr, if they are unable to reach an agreement within the
said period, the matter shall be determined in accordance with
SECTION 10.
Sec. 9. LIABILITY
9.1. The Proiect Developer shall hold the Proiect Owner, its officers and
employees free and harmless from any claims or suits of any thirty party arising from
the performance of raw land reclamation and horizontal development works. The
Proiect Developer shall be solely liable for payment of wages, benefits and
compensations of employees it will hire for purposes of the Project.
9.2. Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed as constituting either party an
agent or representative of the other, it being understood that this Agreement is only
intended to govern the relationship of the parties for the accomplishment of the Project.
SECTION 10. DISPUTE RESOLUTION
The Parties hereto agree that in the event of any dispute or difference between
them arising out of this Agreement or in the interpretation of its provisions, they shall
endeavor to meet together in an effort to resolve such dispute amicably. In appropriate
cases, the Parties may execute a supplementary agreement to clarify issues. If a dispute
cannot be settled by mutual discussion within thirty (30) days from commencement of
discussions, the Parties shall refer the matter for Mediation-Arbitration in accordance
with the Alternative Dispute Resolution Act of 2004 and other applicable laws and
rules.
SECTION 1L. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
11.1. Representations
Each of the parties herein hereby represents and warrants that a) it has full
pourer and authority to make, execute and deliver this Agreement and has taken or will
take all necessary actions or legal steps in connection therewitb b) this Agreement

JointVenture Agreement
Davao Coastline and Port
'
Development Project
constitutes the legally binding obligations of the parties/ their successors-in-interest or
assigns; c) the performance of this Agreement is consistent with its charter documents
and any of its contracts, and not in violation of laws, ordinances, rules and regulations;
d) there is no pending litigatioru arbitration, or investigation which will adversely affect
its ability to fulfill its obligations under this Agreemen!
11.2 Assignment
No party to this Agreement shall assign, transfer or subcontract this Agreement
nor assign any of its rights, obligations or duties to any other party without the prior
written consent of the other party.
11..3. Waranty Against Comrption
The parties warrant that they did not, will not or have not directly or indirectly,
at any time offer or give or agree to grve ,my person any gift or consideration of any
kind or an inducement or reward for performing or refraining to do any act in relation
to the obtaining or execution of this Agreement.
11.4. Annotation
This Agreement shall be annotated at the back of the Certificates of Titles of the
reclaimed land suQ'ect hereof.
L1.5. Severability
If *y term, provision or conditions of this Agreement is subsequently declared
invalid, null or void, or contrary to law by the court of competent jurisdictioru the
validity of the other terms, provisions or conditions not #fected by such declaration of
nullity, shall remain valid and binding upon the parties, their successor or assigns.
1L.5. Amendment
This Agreement may be amended, modified, or altered only by mutual
agreement and a duly executed written instrument signed by the Parties' authorized
representatives.

Byt
JointVenture Agreement
Davao Coastline and Port
Development Project
1L.7. Notice
Any notice to be grven by aoy of the Parties under this Agreement shall be in
*itirg and shall be sent to the following addresses:
To the Proiect Owner
City Government of Davao
Davao City Hall, Davao City
To the Proiect Developer -
Mega Harbour Port And Development
Incorporated
136 Malakas St., Dilimaru Quezon City
11.8. Governing Law
The provisions of this Agreement shall be governed and interpreted in all aspects
by and under the laws of the Republic of the Philippines.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have hereunto set their hands on
the date and place first above-written.
LOCAL GOVERNMENT OF
THE CITY OF DAVAO
MEGA HARBOUR PORT AND
DEVELOPMENT INCORPORATED
By,
Victor
Songco
President
Signed in the presence of:
Pffi
Rod{ifio R. Duterte
rtayot/L4qf
/
/""t^-(
h
/
L

Joint Venture Agreement
Davao Coastline and Port
Development Project
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
Name
Goaernment-issued
ID
Date and Place of
lssuance
Date of Expiration
Rodrigo R.
Duterte
Engr.Victor S.
Songco
Both known to me and to me known to be the same persons who executed the
foregoing ]oint Venture Agreement and they acknowledged to me that the s.rme is their
free and voluntary act and deed and that of the corporations they represent.
The instrument consisting of twenty (20) pages including this page, signed by the
parties and their witresses on each and every page thereof and
my notarial
seal.
Notary
)s.s.
)
BEFORE ME, this 21"t day of fune 201,6, personally appeared the following:
M.
Doc. No. -tq(
Book No.
X 1
Page No. ft+
SERIES of 201.6
PTR(2o1O No.6%171 I l.7-\0'lt I E,el
IBP (2015) No. 09E925, / L2-[:r5 | D$.
Rort orAttorn y,a lib. 53qll