180,Cfif Council
21* Regular Session
SERIES of Z)16
PRESENT:
Councibr
Councibr
Councibr
Councihr
Counclbr
Counclbr
Counclbr
Councibr
Councibr
Councibr
Councibr
Counclbr
Counclbr
Councibr
Councibr
Councibr
Councihr
Councibr
ON OFFICIAT BI.JSINESS:
Vke Mayor
Counclhr
Councibr
Councibr
Councihr
ABSENT:
Counclbr
Counclbr
Counclbr
Councihr
Dbsdado Angelo A. Mahipus Sr.
Bernad E. Al-ag
Al Ryan S. Alepndre
DanE L. AposblSr.
Conrado C. Baluran
Ma. Cheny Ann M. Bonguyan
Pllar C. Braga
Danih C. Dayanghirarg
Edgar P. Ibuyan Jr.
Rene Elhs C. Lopez
Bonifacio E. Milihr
Avegayle Dalodo Ortz
Anbinette G. Pflnclpe{astules
J. Mekhor B. Qultain Jr.
Martsa P. Salvador-Abella
Hallh Y. Sudagar
Mary Jmelh D. VillafuerE
Jesus Joseph P. Zozobrado Itr
Temporary Presiling Offrcer
Paoh Z. DuErt
Nlh M. Abellera Jr.
AprllMarle C. Dayap
January N. Duterte
Leah A. Librado-Yap
Mada Belen S. AcosE
Vhtorlo U. Advlncuh Jr.
Joanne M. Bonguyan{ulhs
limmy G. Dureza
-
On Vacatlon Leave
-
On Vacatlon LeaYe
-
On MaErnl$ Leave
-
On Sick Leave
ORI}IHANCE NO. OI13 .16
SERIES of 2016
AN ORDI'I'HCE GR.AI{TING LEGISI-ATTI'E AUTHORITY TO THE
CITY ]UIAYOR TO SIGIT, FCIR AITD ITI BEI.IAI.F OF T}E CITY
GOYERJTIiIE]IT OF DAYAO, THE }IE}IORAT{DU]T,I OF AGREEMENT
ff{oA} TO BE EI{IERED II{TO BY AnD AIT,IONG THE DEPARTMET{T
OF THE IHTERIOR AND LOCAL GOVERNMHIT REGION XI, THE
CITY GO\rERNltlEtaT OF DAVAO AII) SIAI) INITIATITES IN
I'4IilD.lt{AO COilT'ERGB{CE FOR ASSET REFORM AT{D REGIOHAL
DBTELOPMEIIT (SIIIICARRD), IIIC. CONCERNING THE
ITIIPLETIEI{TATIOI{ OF CSO CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT

Page2 of3
Ord. No. 0113- 16
Be it ordained by the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod of Davao City in session
assembled tftd:
$ECTIOH 1 IIIIE - This Ordinance shall be known as oAH ORDIruU{CE
GRANTIT{G I.EGISI.ATTVE AUTHORITY TO THE CITY T'IAYOR TO SIGN, FOR AITD
ITII EEH,TLF OF THE CITY GOVERf{HEilT OF DAVAO, THE }EIIIORAilDUM OF
AGREEMEiIT (tr{OA} TO BE EI{TERED IHTO BY AfiiD AIrlOilG THE DEPARTT{EHT OF
THE IHTERTOR AiI) LOCAL GOlrERiliiEilr REGIOH XI, THE CITY GOVERittriEilT
OF DAVAO AHD SIAD IAETIATIVES It{ MIISAiI'TO CONI'ERGENCE FOR ASSET
REFORIII At{D REGIOHnL DEI,E-OPMEilT (SIMCARfiD}, IHC. COilCERiIII{G THE
IMPI-EIIiETTATION OF CSO CAPACITY BUILDIilG PROJECT';
SECTIOII Z DECI RATIOII OF FOIJCY - SECTION 455, (b) (l) (vr) of ttre
tocal Gonernmerrt Code, providee to wit:
"F'or efficierrt., eflectfire and economical governf,nce the prrrpoue
of which in ttre general welfsre of the c;ity a.nd its inhabita.nt*
pursuanrt. to SECTION 16 of thin Code, the city mflyor sh€ll:
(v$ Represerrt the city irr all its business transactions arrd
sign in its behalf all bonds, contracts, and ohligations, and such
other documerrts upon autJrority of the SANGGUNIANG
panlrrngsod or pursuarrt to lerr or ordinance";
SECTIOII 3, AUTHORITY - The City Mayor is hereby granted fuidative
authority to sign, for and in behalf of the City Govemment of Davm, the Memomndum
of Agreement by and among $e Deparment of the InEritr and Local Coverrrnent (DILG),
tre Cty Cioverrrnent of Davao and SIAD Initiatives h Midanao Convergence fcr Asset Refcrm
and Rcglonal Dcvelopnrent {SIMCARRD} Inc., conccrn}g thr lrutsmentaffi of CSO CapacEy
IrIiHilE Projec$
SECTIOI| tf, SEPARABIUTY CLIUSE - If for any reason, any smtion or
provision of this Ordinance is declared unconstihrtional or invalid, odrer sections or
provisions hermf not affecEd by such declaration shall continue to be in full force and
effect;
$BCTTOII 5,
approval;
- This Ordinance shall take effEct immediatdy upon
EIIACTED, December 9,20L6, by a unanimous vobe of all the Memberc of the
Sanggunian preent there bdng a quorum.
CERTIEIED CORRECT:
nhi^nx \ , ,1,*
CHARITO t. flAItTOS
kretary b the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsd
(City C*vernment Department l-lead
-S+*

City Councilor
Tempor:ary Presiding Officer
cns/cld
Page3 of3
Ord. No. 0113- 16
AppRovED: FEB 0 3 201?', 2016
DUTERTE
ATTESTED:
ATTESTED:
-city **fl
ATTY. 'W{.*PEZ
CitY Administnabr rc
,'a

;24"',
MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT
KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS:
ThisMemorandumofAgreementmadeandenteredintothis-2017,
Philippines, by and between:
The Department of the Interior and Local Govemment Regional Office, Region X with office
address at Mc Arthur Highway, Matina, Davao City herein represented by Director Ananias
M. Mllacorta, CESO III and herein referred to as the "DILG-RO XI";
and
The Davao City, a Local Government Unit with office address at San Pedro Street Davao
City, herein represented by Sara Duterte, City Mayor and herein referred to as the "LGU"
and
The SLAD Initiatives In Mindanao Convergence For Asset Reform and Regional
Development (SIMCARRD) Inc. an institution with office at Corner Virgo-Saturn Sts., GSIS
Heights, Matina, Davao City herein represented by Angelina L Katoh, Executive Director and
herein referred to as "lnstitution";
The DILG-RO XI, the LGU and the institution shall hereinafter be collectively referred to as
the "Parties"
WITNESSETH
Whereas, the Department of the Interior and Local Govemment (DILG), through the
Local Government Academy (LGA), is mandated by law to strengthen the capacities of the
grassroots Civil Society Organization (CSOs) to become effective partners of the National
government in the development of local plans and budgets under its Bottom-up Budgeting
(BUB) Program;
Whereas, the SIAD Initiatives in Mindanao Convergence for Asset Reform and
Regional Development (SIMCARRD) Inc. is a Non-Government Organization which provides
capacity building programs to the civil Society Organization (CSOs);
Whereas, the SIAD Initiatives in Mindanao Convergence for asset Reform and
Regional Development (SIMCARRD) Inc. has the knowledge, expertise and available training
ms fit for the capacity needs of the CSOs in the target LGU;

Whereas, the LGU is ready and willing to enter into an Agreement with the DILGRegional Office and the Institution concerning the implementation of the CSO Capacity
Building Project under the Bottom up budgeting (BUB) Program and to comply with all the
requirements as may be required;
Whereas, the concerned DILG Regional Office and the LGU will ensure the effective
implementation of the project;
Now thereforg for and in consideration of the foregoing premises, the Parties hereto
agree to enter into this MOA under the following terms and conditions, thus;
Article I- Selection of the Institution
L. Subject to herein attached term of reference, the DILG-RO XI shall select the "
Institution" which has the capability to perform the following activities and to deliver
the corresponding outputs, to wit;
a. Develop a Detailed Work and Financial Plan for the capacity building projec[
b. Assess the capacity needs of the CSOs in the target LGUs;
c. Develop a training framework and design for the CSOs in target LGU/s including
training modules and all other learning materials needed for the training;
d. Prepare the terminal report and evaluation summary of the training;
e. Propose knowledge management strategies to sustain in the gains of the
projects;
f. Recommend next steps to ensure continued capacity development of the CSOs.
Article II a- Rights and Responsibilities of the Institution
The Institution hereby agrees to undertake the following responsibilities:
1. Organize a training team closely coordinate with the DILG-RO XI on the conduct of
capacity assessment and customization of training modules and others learning
materials;
2. In coordination with the DILG RO XI and the LGU, the Institution shall develop a
work and financial plan that will articulate the activities and fund requirements of the
project;
3. Assess the capacity needs of the CSOs in the target LGU through meetings,
consultations and discussions with them. The result of the capacity needs assessment
shall be used as basis in developing the appropriate training programs for the CSOs;
4. Develop a training framework and design for the CSOs in target LGU including
training modules and all other learning materials needed for the training;

5. Implement the training program to a minimum of 80 CSO participants in the target
LGU to be composed of LPRAT members, basic sector representatives, members of
LSBs, and registered participants of the CSOs assembly;
6. Arrange the logistical requirements of the trainings (i.e. training venue,
accommodation, meals and transportation);
7. Administer the training program for its entirety; the institution may subcontract but
limited to technical, logistical assistance and, resource person/s, and / or facilitators;
8. Prepare Terms of Reference and contracts for its subcontractors, resource person,
facilitators, and any auxiliary personnel and/ or organizations relative to the conduct
of the training program;
9. Prepare and submit a terminal report to DILG-RO XI following the prescribed
guidelines of the Local Government Academy (LGA);
L0. Prepare the evaluation report of the knowledge gains of the participants of the
training in coordination with the DILG-RO XI, M&E focal person/s
11. Submit the financial report to the DILG RO XI for the proper liquidation of the
projects funds;
1.2. Propose strategies to document and share the knowledge materials produced from
the conduct of the trainings; and,
13. Recommend an action plan and/or next steps to ensure continued capacity
development of the CSOs.
Article II b-Rights and Responsibilities of the Local Govemment Unit (LGU)
The Local Govemment Unit shall undertake the following responsibilities:
1. The LGU shall designate a "Focal Person" Who shall act as the single point of contact
with respect to any communications between the Parties. The LGU may likewise
designate any staff, as the need arises, who shall assist the DILG-RO and the
Institution in the implementation of the project;
2. Provide all documents pertinent to the project and other related BUB capacity
Building activities;
3. Effectively manage and promptly deliver the outputs and deliverables of the project;
4. Make available appropriate resources, including personnel and office space for the
use of the training team;
5. Assist the Institution and DILG RO in the selection of the CSO participants to the
training/s;
6. Support the adoption of proposed knowledge management strategies and next
steps to ensure continued capacity development of CSOs; and,
7. Review, monitor and record the projects outputs/results.
rtu

Article II c-Rights and Responsibilities of the DILG Regional ffice
The DILG Region ffice shall undertake the following responsibilities:
L. Manage and oversee the overall implementation of the project;
2. Provide all documents pertinent to the project and other related BUB capacity
building documents;
3. Conduct the selection of the Terms of Reference (ToR );
4. Conduct briefing to LGU and Institution to determine their readiness and willingness
to participate in the project;
5. Provide technical/coaching assistance to LGU and Institution in the implementation
of the project, if needed;
6. Ensure that the CSO participants shall participate in all activities and to deliver all the
expected outputs ofthe project;
7. Resolve operational issues and concerns that may arise in the course of project
implementation;
8. Consolidate and review the terminal reports and financial reports submitted by the
Institution;
9. Conduct monitoring and evaluation of the project implementation and submit a
report thereon to the SILG, through the LGA;
10. Make available appropriate resources, including personnel and office space for the
use ofthe project team and coaches; and
l-L. Review, monitor and record the project outputs/results.
Article lll-Ownership
1. The full ownership of the outputs derived from this MOA and accountabilities shall
remain with DILG-LGA, LGU and Institution;
2. Ownership of intellectual property rights for reports, studies, documents and other
written materials generated and brought into existence in connection with this
project shall rest upon the DILG-LGA, LGU and Institution;
3. All reports, studies, documents and written materials are therefore not to be used,
copied, sold or published without written approval from the DILG-LGA, LGU and
Institution.
Article lV-Commencement of work
1. Implementation shall immediately commence upon the effectivity of this MOA.
Activities shall be undertaken as indicated in the terms of reference OoR) attached in
this agreement.

Article V-Settlement of Disputes
1. Any controversy or claim arising out of or in connection with the implementation of
this MOA, or any breach thereot shall be settled amicably by the parties.
Article M- Termination
1. This agreement may be terminated through a written advanced noticed to be issued
by either PARry to the other PARry only on the following grounds and premises;
a. Gross violation of any of the terms and conditions of this AGREEMENT.
b. Failure of either PARry to execute each of their assigned responsibilities and
non-adherence to all provisions herein stated.
1. No modification of or change in this MOA, waiver of any of its provisions, or
additional contractual provisions shall be valid or enforceable, unless previously
approved in writing or duly signed in the form of a written amendments by the
parties hereto, or their duly authorized representatives.
2. Any amendment, modification, addition or deletion from this MOA, or any scope of
work other matters concerning the project covered by this MOA, shall be undertaken
jointly by the DILG Ro, LGU and Institution.
3. If any provision of this MOA is held invalid and unenforceable by any court for any
reason, the remainder shall continue to be in force and effect.
4. The voluntary commitment shall continue to be in force and effective even if any
entity undergoes any changes in its organizational structures/officials or its functions
assumed by another agenry or office.
Article VIII- Effectivity
1. This agreement shall take effect upon signing of the parties herein stated and shall
continue to be in force until June 30, 2017.
Article IX- General Provision
L. This agreement and the Terms of Reference attached hereto, shall form the entire
MOA between the DILG RO, the LGU and Institution superseding the contents of any
other previous negotiations and/or agreement, whether oral or in writing, pertaining
to the subject of this MOA.
Article Vll-Amendments and Severability

IN MINESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their representatives duly
authorizedforthispurpose,herebyaffixtheirsignaturesthis-dayof,in
Philippines.
For the Institution:
For the LGU:
ANG
L. KATOH
Director
SIMCARRD,Inc.
For the DILG Region:
M.
A, CESO tr
Regional
DILG Region XI
WITNESSES
P. SARCENA
IVAN
Admi
Finance Officer
DILG City Director
OIC, CPDO
Inc
City Mayor
Davao Citu
/
l

ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
REPUBUC OF THE PHIUPPINES}
-mfry-Davao del Sur) S.S
BEFORE ME, A Notary Public in and for
Davao C[ty
Personally Appeared:
a
Place/Date
ANANIAS M. VILLACORTA, CESO III
""9
1-1too0'lt+
fanaal Cr\
(Tldr..9o, @t.}
SARA DUTERTE
celLotsosgSzgtS
04!rro cZrl
Wb tc t z0r7
ANGEUNA L. KATOH ?T$(NT +
AVOOILU.L
orfr mntut
A4b, fi,NS
Known to me and to me known to be the same person who executed the foregoing
instrument and they acknowledged to me that the same is their free and voluntary act and
deed a well as that of the organizations represented herein.
O B MAY 2OI7
Community Tax
IN MTNESS,I have hereunto set my hand and affixed my notarial
day of2017 at
Philippines
Name
Issued
DOC.
PAGE NO.
BOOK NO.
SERIES OF
this_
PTR
og
lBP
P.OLL
xl
tt'rt,
)Ott

CAPACITY D EVELO PM ENT EXPERT/TRAINING SERVIC E PROVID ER
For Conduct of Capacity Building Programs for CSOs
TERMS OF REFERENCE fiOR)
Rationale
The Philippine local Government Code (LGC) of 1991 has provided venues for the civil society
organizations (CSOs) to participate in local governance, Further. The LGC mandated the Local
Governance Units (LGUs) to promote the establishment and the operation of the people's
organizations to become active partners in Governance and to institute participatory
mechanisms to regularly engage CSOs in local governance,specifically in the areas of
development, planning poliry making, education, health and peace and order among others.
ln20L2, the Philippine government implemented the Bottom-up Budgeting (BUB) program. This
programs aims to empower citizens in govemment planning and budgeting process and
strengthen devolution of government services. Along with these goals, the BUB largely worked
with CSOs to monitor the poverty reduction plans and budgets of the government. The BUB
introduces a reform that highlights the significant role of the CSOs in the governance process
and to ensure transparenry and accountability in government. The BUB program is now on its
3'd year of implementation. Through the Program, a significant number of CSOs from diverse
sectors were mobilized and given the opportunity to participate in the program. More projects
were identified by the LGUs and the CSOs and subsequently included in their LPRAP.
While the BUB program provides opportunity for the CSOs to participate in governance, there
are few capacity gaps and challenges that should be addressed to enhance CSO engagement in
planning and budgeting process. Some of the challenges are: (1) the regulated process of the
CSO accreditation and selection of CSOs in LPRAT; (2) in accessibility of government data and
information to CSOs; (3) lack of capacity of CSOs to analyze poverty reduction targets and data;
and (4) weak CSO capacity to identify sustainable project and programs that address local
poverty challenges.
To address these gaps there is a need develop a program that would focus on strengthening the
capacities of the CSOs to meet the requirements of BUB program. The BUB capacity
development program for CSOs is
improve the LGU-CSO partnerships.
developed to
hance the capa'cfties of the CSOs and
aims to develop training programs and
learning modules to sustain
eme
'in
empower the CSOJ
inclusive growth.
1,..
(
{
gove_rqAnce. Lastly, it aims to
tr#thiill poverty and achieve
Stqfq6-#64gew
G.s"
lic
,l;rr"e
{-(ft
t ---
ff({'o
,{,,lI{
MCYI-L
t

I
CAPACTTY D EVELO PM ENT EXPERT/TRAINING SERVTC E PROVID E R
For Conduct of Capacity Building Programs for CSOs
TERMS OF REFERENCE fiOR)
Rationale
The Philippine local Government Code (LGC) of L991 has provided venues for the civil society
organizations (CSOs) to participate in local governance, Further. The LGC mandated the Local
Governance Units (LGUs) to promote the establishment and the operation of the people's
organizations to become active partners in Governance and to institute participatory
mechanisms to regularly engage CSOs in local governance specifically in the areas of
developmenl planning policy making, education, health and peace and order among others.
In 20L2, the Philippine government implemented the Bottom-up Budgeting (BUB) program. This
programs aims to empower citizens in government planning and budgeting process and
strengthen devolution of government services. Along with these goals, the BUB largely worked
with CSOs to monitor the poverty reduction plans and budgets of the government. The BUB
introduces a reform that highlights the significant role of the CSOs in the governance process
and to ensure transparency and accountability in government. The BUB program is now on its
3'd year of implementation. Through the Program, a significant number of CSOs from diverse
sectors were mobilized and given the opportunity to participate in the program. More projects
were identified by the LGUs and the CSOs and subsequently included in their LPRAP.
While the BUB program provides opportunity for the CSOs to participate in governance, there
are few capacity gaps and challenges that should be addressed to enhance CSO engagement in
planning and budgeting process. Some of the challenges are: (1) the regulated process of the
CSO accreditation and selection of CSOs in LPRAT; (2) in accessibility of government data and
information to CSOs; (3) lack of capacity of CSOs to analyze poverty reduction targets and data;
and (4) weak CSO capacity to identify sustainable project and programs that address local
poverty challenges.
To address these gaps there is a need develop a program that would focus on strengthening the
capacities of the CSOs to meet the requirements of BUB program. The BUB capacity
development program for CSOs is developed to enhance the capacities of the CSOs and
improve the LGU-CSO partnerships. The program aims to develop training programs and
learning modules to sustain the engagement of the CSOs in governance. Lastly, it aims to
empower the CSOs to become active partners of government to reduce poverty and achieve
inclusive growth.

Through DBM-DILG-DCWD-NAPC joint Memorandum circular #5, the local Government
Academy (LGA) is entrusted to implement capacity building projects for CSOs, primarily to those
settings in the LPRAT. The capacity building projects will cover 134 LGUs with varied capacity
needs that will be addressed by the projects. Due to the high demand for capacity development
interventions nationwide and the quality of trainings to be provided to the CSOs, the LGA
through the DILG regional offices shall commission service providers who will conduct the
capacity development training programs to CSOs in the target LGUs.
IL Objectives of Engagement
This engagement aims to provide technical assistance aimed at strengthening at DILG efforts in
Favour of greater participation of CSOs in local governance. It aims to ensure the effective and
efficient development and implementation of capacity building projects for CSOs in the BUB
target LGUs, training institutions/ organizations and expert shall be taped to augment the
required knowledge and competencies needed to implement the trainings at the local level.
Se Mces/O utputs/Del irrera bles:
The outputs of this undertaking are:
L. Capacity needs assessment of CSOs in the target LGU/s validating the results of the
initial capacity needs mapping done by LGA through the regions.
2. Training framework and design describing the objectives, strategies, training plan,
learning activities, modules and sessions.
3. Terminal report summarizing the results of the training conducted, profile of CSOs,
modules, sessions guides and other learning materials used, activity evaluation propose
strategies to share knowledge materials produced the and recommendations to improve
conduct similar activity/ project with the CSOs and financial report.
IIL Scope of wo*
To achieve the aforementioned outputs the service provider/expert shall:
L. Organize the training team that will closely coordinate with DILG regional office/s on the
conduct of capacity assessment and customization of training modules and other
learning materials.
2. Validate the capacity needs of the CSOs in target LGU/s through meetings, consultations
and discussions with the CSOs.
3. Develop a training framework and design for the CSOs in the target LGU/s.
4. Develop the training modules and all other learning materials needed for the training.
5. Implement the training program for a minimum of 80 CSO participants in target LGU/s.
[n'nq"'-

6. Arrange the logistical requirements of the training (i.e. training venue, accommodation,
meals and transportation).
7. Administer the training program for its entirety, the organization may subcontract but
limited to technical assistance and needs, logistical assistant and needs, resource
person/s, and / or facil itators;
8. Prepare TORs and contracts for its subcontractors, resource person, facilitators, and any
auxiliary personnel and/ or organizations relative to the conduct of the training program;
9. Prepare and submit a terminal report to DILG regional office/following the prescribed
guiltiness of the local Government Academy (LGA);
10. Prepare the evaluation report of the knowledge gains of the participants of the training
in coordination with the DILG regional M&E focal person/s;
11. Submit financial report to the DILG regional offices to proper liquidate the funds;
L2. Propose strategies to document and share the knowledqe materials produced from the
conduct of trainings;
13. Recommend an action plan and/or next steps to ensure continued capacity development
of the CSos.
IV. Qualifi cation requirements
The service provider must demonstrate the following qualifications:
1. Reputable training organization that develop and implement capacity development
programs on local governance and citizen engagement, that has been in operation for at
least (3) three years
2. Recognize and/or accredited by a government agenry to provide capacity building
programs to CSOs and LGUs
3. Extensive experience and knowledge in local governance, inclusive development, citizen
engagement and other development works with COSs
4. Wide knowledge on government policies relevant on participatory governance
5. Knowledge and recognized expertise in the area of capacity building in the public sector,
preferably at the regional and local level
6. Has existing training programs suitable to the capacity needs of the CSOs in the target
LGUs
7. In-depth knowledge of state-of-the art learning technologies in the conduct of trainings
for CSOs
8. Has the pool of experts to provide inputs in the development and implementation of
trainings
9. Has experience working with the government, an advantage
,,79'*

l-0. Has the institutional clout to influence policy decisions of legislators, government
officials and other development stakeholders
l-1. Able to provide training venues (such as but not limited to function halls, classrooms,
and seminar rooms).
V. Duration of work and payment schedule
The project will be undertaken over a continuous period of three (3) months (April-June 2017) to
commence on April L,2OL7. The service provider is expected to regularly communicate with the
assigned project coordinator of the DILG regional office/s during the whole duration of the
assignment. Generally, this project shall follow the proposed work plan and payment schedule
below:
ANG
UTERTE
L KATOH
Director
M.
Regional Di
City Mayor
Davao Cityr
/
ACTMTY
OUTPUT
TIMEFRAME
PAYMENT
Upon signing of the
contract
t)o/o
Development and
initiation of project
Plan of engagement (i.e.
work and financial plan,
capacity needs assessment
desiqn, tool, etc.)
5 Business Days after
awarding of contract
50%
Modification of
training Design and
module
Modified training design
and module/s
Submission of final training
design, plan, session
quides
L5 business Days after
awarding of contract
30o/o
Actual Conduct of
Traininq
Conduct of training to 80
Selected participants
20 business Days after
awardinq of Contract
Submission of report
Submission of terminal
report
Submission of
Recommended Action
plan
30 Business Days after
of Contract
L}o/"
TOTAL
L00o/o
SIMCARRD
DILG Region K
cEso rII