,,'.rt*.5
il$ s
' '\ 11,1*rr'
'
OFFICE OF THE CITY I\{AYOR
\
Ref. t{o. CAdG2020{1302
2Nd INDORSEMENT
June 5,2020
Respectfully returned to lrls. Charito il. Sanbs, Secretary to the SANGGUNIANG
Panlungsod, this Gty, the herein Legal Opinion No, 367, SERIES of 2AZA dated May 28,
2020 of Atty. Marlisa A. Gallo, RSW., Acting Asst. City Legal fficer, City Legal ffice,
relaUve to the attached approved Ordinance No. 0123-19, SERIES of 2019 entided, "AN
ORDINANCE AMENDING CITY ORDINANCE NO. OLTT-L4, SERIES AF 20L4, OR THE
DAVAO CITY ADOPT-A-DOG ORDINANCE OF 2019 TO INCLUDE ITS APPUCATION TO
C,ETS", for your information and appropriate action.
For the City Mayor:
ATTY. TRISTAN
INGO
Assistant
(Administration)
CITY MAYOR'S OFFICE
CORRSP_OHOEUCE AND RECOROS OIV
RELEASED
ho'17
JUN 1J 2O2O
?
,r,rrfto*o a
ADMINISTRATTVE AIDE IV I
Second Floor, City Hall Building, City Hall Drive, San Pedro St., Davao City
(082)224-3004 o (082) 241-1000 loc.265 o davaocitymayor@gmait.com4
-a[-
td
BAV @
LIFE IS HERE
o
,t
I
ta
0Yr

.r"
OFFICE OF THE CITY LEGAL OFFICER
Tel. No. 298-6970
.rrqr& lfnEd$ 241-1000 Lcrc, 267 l22sl 230
twl
ato}r.
Ref. No. CLO-2020 -001426
Legal Opinion No. lrT ,
SERIES of 2020
RE: ORDINANCE NO. 0123-19, SERIES OF 2019 entitled *AN
ORDINANCE AMENDING CITY ORDINANCE NO. OITI-I4, SERIES
OF 20T4, OR "THE DAVAO CITY ADOPT-A-DOG ORDINANCE OF
2OI9" TO INCLUDE ITS APPLICATION TO CATS"
l't INDORSEMENT
May 28, 2020
Respectfully forwarded to the Office of the City Mayor, through the Office
of the City Administrator, both this City, the subject Ordinance, informing your
end that the enactment of the same is well within the powers of the
SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod as provlded for under SECTION 458 of the Republic Act
7160 otherwise known as the Local Government Code of 1991.
IN VIEW OF THE FOREGOING, this office recommends the approval of the
same
ATTY. MA
Acting
fttll-.--
Rq\sA A. GALLO, RSW
nsH city Legal officer
Approved:
ATTY. OSMUN
O P. VILANUEVA, JR.
Acting City Legal Officer
Date approved: May 29,2020
(ttdOI :.;- I 9 ddopt-a-dog-2020'0t) l -t26 -t-:3 20
,,WAM
€fFl6E S Tl{E 6tff Aflfirrxt8tr,u+oR
CITY HALL OFFICE
DAVAO CIW hnz/*
TIECEIVED BY
IIATE:
'rlME:
b-s,.%
1T_Ffi
D
IUN n I ?020 (&tfu qrcq
W-T1L
(llI

OFFICE OF THE CITY LEGAL OFFICER
l-el. No. 298-6970
Trunk Line No. 241-10@ Lcr.267/2251230
Ref. No. CLO-2020 -00t426
Legal Opinion No.
SERIES of 2020
a67
RE: ORDINANCE NO. 0123-T9, SERIES OF 2OI9 CNtitICd "AN
ORDINANCE AMENDING CITY ORDINANCE NO. OI77-T4, SERIES
OF 2074, OR "THE DAVAO CITY ADOPT-A-DOG ORDINANCE OF
2019" TO INCLUDE ITS APPLICATION TO CATS"
ATTY. MA
Acting
Approved:
ATTY. OSMUN
P. VTLANUEVA, JR.
Acting City Legal Officer
Date approved: Ylay 29,2020
ord1 I :.1- tq atlttpt't-dttg 2020-0011)o 5 2,\-20
,"WAM
l't INDORSEMENT
MaY 28, 2020
Respectfully forwarded to the Office of the City Mayor, through the Office
of the City Administrator, both this City, the subject Ordinance, informing your
end that the enactment of the same is well within the powers of the
SANGGUNIANG panlungsod as provided for under SECTION 458 of the Republic Act
Z1OO otnerwise known as the Local Government Code of 1991.
IN VIEW OF THE FOREGOING, this office recommends the approval of the
same.
nil*ffi. eALLo, Rsw
nsH City Legal Officer

May 15, 2020
cMo - cR!]
SARA Z. DUTERTE
City Mayor
$BHEffifr\fHffi
cnM,$'*6o'
Secretary to the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod
(City Government Department Head II)
Madam:
Pursuant to Sub-SECTION 3, Paragraph C, SECTION 469, Article One, Title Five,
Chapter 3, Book III and SECTION 54 Book I of Republic Act No. 7160, otherwise known
as the Local Government Code of 1991, we are furnishing you a copy of Resolution No.
0415-19 and Ordinance No. 0123-19, both SERIES of 2019 of the SANGGUNIANG
Panlungsod, for your information, guidance and appropriate action.
Very truly yours,
qTb^ 3- 10

19th City Council
21* Regular Session
SERIES of 2019
PRESENT:
Councilor
Vice Mayor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilo'r
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
ABSENT:
Vice Mayor Sebastian Z. Dutefte
Councilor Edgar R. Ibuyan Sr.
- On Sick Leave
- OB- Attended the Liga ng rnga
Barangay in Boracay
ORDINANCE NO. 0123.19
SERIES of 2019
AN OR,DINANCE AITIENDING CITY ORDINANCE NO. OL7L.L4, SER,IES
oF 2014, OR *THE DAVAO CrrY ADOPT-A-DOG ORDINANCE OF 2019',
TO INCLUDE ITS APPLICATION TO CATS
Edgar P. Ibuyan Jr.
- Temporary Presiding Officer
Ralph O. Abella
Nilo D. Abellera
Maria Belen S. Acosta
Bai Hundra Cassandra Dominique N. Advincula
Wiibefto E. Ai-ag
Dante L. Apostol Sr.
Conrado C. Baluran
lessica M. Bonguyan
Louie John J. Bonguyan
Pilar C. Braga
Augusto Javier G. Campos III
Danilo C. Dayanghirang
Jonard C. Dayap
Richlyn N. Justol-Baguilod
Pamela A. Librado-Morata
Diosdado Angelo Junior R. Mahipus
Jaffar U. Marohomsalic
Bonifacio E. Militar
Myrna G. L'Dalodo-Oftiz
Antoinette G. Principe-Castrodes
J. Melchor B. Quitain Jr.
AIbefto T. Ungab
Mary Joselle D. Villafuefte
Jesus Joseph P. Zozobrado III

Ord. No.0123-19
Be it ordained by the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod of Davao Oty 1n session assembled,
that
SECTION 1. ELE - This Ordinance shall be known as "AN ORDINANCE
AMENDTNG CITY ORDINANCE NO. OLT,-L4, SERTES OF 2Ot4, OR yHE DAVAO
CITY ADOPT-A.DOG ORDINANCE OF 2OL9'TO INCLUDE ITS APPLICATION TO
atlan
LAI S
SECTION 2. AMENDMENTS - City Ordinance No. 171-14, SERIES of 2014 or the
Davao City Adofi-a-Dog Ordinance shall be amenffi as follows:
SECEON 1. TffLE - This Ordinance shall be known as "The Davao City
Adopt-A-Dog -And -Cat (DADC) Ord i nance of 20t9" .
SEcTroN 2. PoLIcY - It is the policy of the city of Davao to ensure the
protection of dogs/cats from abuse; the promotion of adoption of
ciogs/cats, ii practicabie anci necessary anci the rehabiiitation oithe same.
It is likewise the duty of every pet owner to ensure that their pet dogs/cats
are protected from harm and well cared for. The City will exhaust all means
to save the [ife of a dog/cat and shatl resort to euthanasia only as the last
and desperate resort. Fufther, this Ordinance is not intended to hinder the
anti-rabies program of the City, and in fact, the "Pet-Friendly" policy of the
City of Davao must complement its anti-rabies program.
SBCTIOil 3. DEFIT{ITION OF TERTIIS.
A. Arrimai Weifare i.ion-Government Oroanization. - Animal weifare
nongovernment organization and other interested persons that
advocate the welfare of animals, especially dogs/cats.
B. Dogs/cats unsafe for adoption or incapable of rehabilitation- Dogs/cats
which aggressiveiy attack a person causing physical injury or cieath, or
behave in a manner that a reasonable individual would believe poses an
unjustified imminent threat of physical injury or death or provide signs
that it is inclined to attack a person without provocation; a dog/eaE
afflicted with rabies infection or other contagious diseases, viruses or
bacteria or a dog/eaE with a severe medicai condition that wouicl pose
danger to adopting individuals or terminally ill ones. The dog/cat size
and weight shall be taken into consideration in determining the
classification.
C. Dog/cat safe for adoption- Dogs/caE which are sociable or friendly, do
not attack aggressively a person, do not pose as an unjustified imminent
threat of physical injury or death and give indication that it is liable to
attack a person and in good h€alth condition. The dog/eat size and
weight shall be taken into consideration in determining the
classification.
D. Dogs/cats safe for adootion but reouires rehabilitation- Dogs/cats which
are sociable or friendly, do not attack aggressively a person, do not pose
as an unjustified imminent threat of physical injury or death and give
indication that it is liable to attack a person but with physical and
medical condition that shall require minor treatment. The dog/cat size
and weight shall be taken into consideration in determining the
classification.

Ord. No.0123-19
E. Euthanasia/Mercy Killing- Humane method of inducement which does
not result in a prolonged pain and suffering to end the life of a dog/cat.
F. Impounded animals- Stray dogs/cats whether registered or
unregistered caught or rescued and impounded at the City Pound.
Rescued dogs/cab are included in this definition.
G. Rescued dogs/cats- Any dog/cat which has been subjected to fighting,
abandoned, neglected by its owner or severely maltreated by its owner,
keeper, or by persons not the owner or keeper, shall be regarded as a
rescued dog/cat for the purpose of rehabilitation.
H. Rehabilitated dog/cat- A dog/ca! which has sufficiently regained its
physical and medical condition which allows it to sufficiently perftrm its
regular movement.
I. Strav dogs/cats- Any dog/cat leaving its owner's place or premise and
no longer under the effective control of the owner. Registered and
unregistered dogs/cats and dogs/cats without owners shall be included
in this Ordinance.
SECTION 4.
A. If at the expiration of three (3) days from the time of impounding, an
impounded dog/Elhas not been claimed by the owner or keeper, the City
Veterinarian's Office (hereinafter referred to as *CVO'for brevity.) may
initially classiff the dog/cat for purposes of permanent or temporary
adoption to qualified persons, or euthanasia/mercy-killing in accordance
with law.
B. It shall be the duty and responsibility of the CVO to immediately,
humanely, fairly, and with care, preferably in consultation with a
government-registered animal welfare non-government organization,
classiff within three (3) days from impounding of the dogs/cab whether a
dog/eA! is (a) safe for adoption, (b) safe for adoption but requires
rehabilitation and (c) dangerous for adoption or incapable of rehabilitation.
The CVO shall begin obseruation for rabies infection on the impounded
dog/cat_ctassified under (a) and (b) from the time of impoundment up to
the 10th day of impoundment unless the CVO requires a longer period of
impoundment. After impoundment, the dog/cat shall be declared cleared
and placed for adoption. Impounded dogs/cats under (c) shall be
euthanized in the most humane manner so as not to cause pain and
suffering to the animal in accordance with law, unless SECTION 4F of this
Ordinance is applied.
C. Any person who is qualified to adopt a dog/cat shall be allowed to
adopt a dog/cat determined as safe and cleared for adoption preferably of
his or her own choice.
D. After the 10th day of rehabilitation unless the CVO determines a longer
period of rehabilitation and after the dog/cat has been cleared for adoption,
the CVO shall clear the dog/cat for adoption and declare them safe for
adoption including rescued dogs/cats under its care and superuision on
permanent or temporary adoption to qualified caring and loving individuals
only.

3?3i*o.l'oirr-,,
It shall exert utmost effofts so that the dogs/cats will be adopted by
qualified individuals who will provide for adequate shelter, protection, love
ancj care rbr the unciaimeci or rescueci ciogical rieciareci saie ancj cleared
for adoption. Any person who is a resident of the City for six (6) continuous
months of good moral character, of legal age, has not been tonvicted of
violation of the Animal welfare Act upon the determination of the wo,
appears to have and actually has genuine concern for the welfare and
protection for dogs and cats.
E. If the cvo determines that a dog/calis safe fur adoption but requires
rehabilitation, the dog/cat shall immediately be ptaced under observation
until the 10th day of impoundment and clearance, the cvo may then place
the dog/eal! under rehabilitation or for adoption to persons who shall
volunteer to rehabilitate the dog/@! or shall volunteer to have the dog/ca!
rehabilitated through a private animal rehabititation center or individual
who specializes in rehabilitation of dogs/cats. otherwise, the dog/cag sha!!
be disposed of through euthanasia.
E.1. If the dog/cat is temporarily adopted, the adoptive person shall take
care and custody of the dog/cat and may proceed with the rehabilitation of
the dog/cat as provided by SECTION 5.E. The CVO shall determine the period
of temporary adoption. Upon the expiration of the period of adoption, the
CVO shall determine whether the dog/eat has been rehabilitated and
qualified for adoption. If the dog/cat is declared as rehabilitated, the same
shall be placed for permanent adoption. If the cvo determines that the
same had not been rehabilitated, the dog/cat shall be disposed of through
euthanasia.
E.2. The person who temporarily adopted the dog/cat shall have priority in
the process of permanent adoption of the dog/cat once the latter is
declared as rehabilitated.
F. A dog/cat determined to be dangerous for adoption or incapable of
rehabiiitation shaii be immeciiateiy ciisposeci oi in accorciance with iaw.
To ensure the safety of the public, all dogs/cats shall be presumed unsafe
for adoption and incapable of rehabilitation if within three (3) days from
impounding, the dogs/cats have yet to be classified in accordance with
SECTION 4.B of this ordinance. However, in special instances where the
dogs/cats-are classified as unsafe for adoption or incapable of
rehabilitation, the city veterinarian may allow the adoption or of the
dogs/cats to percons who are known or who claim to be knowledgeable in
the field of dog/cat training or rehabilitation. Provided, the dog/cat shall be
placed under observation up to the 10s day of impoundment untess the
cvo determines a longer period of impoundment. provided, the adopting
persons are informed of the classification of the dog/ca[ the reason for the
classification, the risks which accompany in the adoption of such dogs/cats,
anci the persons who seek to acfopt shaii cio so at their own risk. Provicieci
fufther, that the classification of the dogs/cats classified as unsafe for
adoption or incapable of rehabilitation under this provision are not due to
rabies infection or other contagious diseases, bacteila, or viruses.

Ord. No.0123-19
G. The cvo shail coordinate with animat werfare groups and other
interested persons to promote, ar'.st, ano iuppo,t in [n. ;ddii;n; and
ioster care oi unciaimeci or rescueci ciogs/@lhina .*.n ali means possible
to avoid the destruction of uncraimld or rer.r"d dogs/garE-i"r. ro,
adoption without causing harm to the pubric. rriot*iilrri.nfirg,-itin.1
likewise be the duty of the cvo to ensure that the initiative shall ri6t unduly
congest the city pound and hinder the anti-rabies program of the city.
Fufthermore, the.cvo may, in a just and fair manner, permit the adoption
gf te1 (10) dogs/Eats a month unless it determines a different number of
dogs/ea:ts taking into consideration the following,-in. safety and security
of the publig the effect on the .;q/.s anti_rabiej piogrrr, the budgetary
requirements for the adoption and rehabilitation program, if any, the
number of dogs/cajE impounded and qualified for adoption, .nd th"
estimated number of interested and quatided adopting individuais.
H' The CVO shall coordinate with and encourage participation of animat
welfare groups and non-government agencies anJot'her interested p.,ion,
to help strengthen the adoption efforts of unclaimed or rescued dogs/galts
especially if found unfit for adoption to willing and quatified individuilsl
I
Temporary adoption is a system of adoption where a qualified person
is permitted to have care and custody of a dog/ealfoi i p.,ioo ,,
determined by the cvo. within the period of temporiry adoption, ih" roster
may likewise encourage the permanent adoption of the oog/..t ,no.it i,
custody. The adopting person shall return the dog/gat to ttr6'citv pouna o,
his authorized representative not more than seven (7) days aner lrre
expiration of the period of fostering, for adoption to other bers6ns. lf wittrin
one day from the return of the dogs/cats to the City pound and after utmost
effofts have been made to ensure that a dog/fo will be aoopteo, tne
dog/@! shall be subjected to euthanasia.
I.1. In case the temporary foster and other willing and qualified persons
decide to permanently adopt the dog/eaE, the temporary foster shall be
prefened.
J. The cvo shall keep a record of the identity and maintain the
whereabouts of the dogs/cats adooted and the individuals ol" p.rson,
adopting. In cases of change of address and contact oetaits, -irre
foster/adopter must inform the CVO.
K. Rll dogs/cats. placed for adoption should be properly vaccinated,
neutered or spayed and r.egister.ed by the CVO.
L. All adopting persons shall comply with the responsibilities of pet
owners as provided by SECTION 5 0f Republic Act g4g2 including the
mandatory rehabilitatign of the dogs/ea:ts piaced for permanent adoplion if
the indi"'idual seek rehabilitation of trre cog/cat elsewher-e.
M. The city veterinarian's office shall ensure the proper and timely
disposition of dogs/cats classified as unsafe for adoption or incapable of
rehabilitation through means allowed by law to prevent endangerment of
the public unless the CVO, in its discretion, acts in accordance uiith SECTION
4.F of this Ordinance.
?

Ord. No. 0123-19
Further, the city veterinarian's office shalt ensure the proper and timely
disposition of dogs/cats classified as safe for adoption and rare ro.uooption
but require rehabiiitation which were unabie to benefit from adoptio, *itn
one day from placing the dogs and/or cats for adoption t6 prevent
endangerment of the public.
N. The CVO shall provide adequate information and notice to the public
as to the list of impounded dogs/cats classified as safe for adoption oi: iif"
for adoption but require rehabilitation who will be undergoing a perioa of
obseruation for rabies infection before possibly being rolraily pi.i.o-ro,
adoption.
SECTION 5. REHABILITATION OF DOGS/CATS.
A. The City Veterinarian's Office may provide for a dog/cat rehabilitation
program at the City Pound which shall undertake the rehabilitation of
dogs/saB qualified for adoption including rescued dogs/cats ano oiner
dogs/cats not impounded. The i"ehabilitation program stralt provide for the
following: determination of the phpical and medical condition of the
dogs/cats and determine if the same are capable of rehabilitation within
the time provided by the program, the procedure for treatment of the
dog s/cat's physical and medical condition.
B. The period of rehabilitation which shail not be more than five (5) days
unless the CVO requires a longer period taking into consideraiion the
following: the availability of funds, personner, equipment, and facilities for
the implementation of the program, the gravity of the physical and medical
condition of the dogs/cab, and the number of dogs/cats placed under
rehabilitation. If permissible without causing danger to any individual, the
rehabilitation may be undeftaken during the period of ionfinerent fo,
obseruation for rabies virus contamination.
c. The cvo shall determine if a rescued dog/cat which has undergone
rehabilitation and recovery procedure, has been rehabilitated. n oog/eat
shall be considered as rehabilitated if the cvo has diagnosed-'the
improvement of the physical and medical condition of the dog/cat and
cleared the same for release.
D. As far as practicable, the CVO shall have a rehabilitation and trearnent
facility separate from the regular impoundment area for dogs/eats.
E. The CVO shall seek the cooperation and participation of animal welfare
g!'oups and other lnterested persons in the rescue, r.ehabilitation and
recovery of rescued dogs and cats. The CVO will atlow the particffiion of
the animal welfare groups and other interested perons in the informationdissemination drive of the City on the existence of the Adopt-A-Dog-Andcat Program of the city, including providing information on the p5ssible
r'lolation of the Animal luelfare Ac, and pror,ldlng advlce and
recommendation to the CVO on the implementation of the rehabilitation
program, if any.

PageT of 7
Ord. No. 0123-19
Furthermore, animal welfare groups and other interested persons may be
permitted to undeftake the rehabilitation and recovery of the dogs/cats
uncier the care anci custocjy oi the CVO, anci unciertake the rescue ot stray
or abandoned dogs/cats and turn over the same to the Cvo or with the
permission of the latter, opt to adopt, permanently, or volunteer to
rehabilitate the rescued dog/et in accordance with the provisions of this
Ordinance.
F. The adopting persons may be charged with reasonable fees for the
rehabilitation and treatment of the dogs/cats.,,
SECTION 6. SEPARABIUTY CLAT SE - If, for any reason, any SECTION or
provision of this Ordinance is declared unconstitutional or invatid, other' sections or
provisions hereof not affected by such declaration shatl continue to be in full force and
effect.
SECTION 7.
approval.
EFFEcrrvrrY - This ordinance shail take effect immediately upon
ENACTED, December 3, 2019, by a unanimous vote of al! the Members of the
Sanggunian, there being a quorum.
CERTIEIED CORRECT:
, Al^/r,,6 I W
CFIARITO N..SANTOS
Secretary to the Sangguhlang panlungsod
ATTESTED:
E
President Pro
Temporary Presiding Officer
cns/bern
ATTY.
LEIKA
(City Government Department Head -II)
t,lotl,,o
JUN 0 I 2020
2019
Z. DUTERTE
ATTESTED:
City Administrator
ctrv Mavy