OFFICE OH'THE CITY I\{AYOR
O
pNc
,
.r,,
-i
Republic of the Qtltppines
Ref. rECAdG2Ot9-m35
/
lst IT{DORSEMENT
December L6,zALg
*
Respectfully forwarded to Ms. Charito N. Santos, Secretary to the
SANGGUNIANG Panlungmd, this City, the herein atbched documents relative to the duly
signed and approved Grant Agreement entered into between the Government of the
United Stats of America, acting through the U.5. Trade and Development Agency
(USTDA) and the City Government of Davao, for the grant of USD 515,000 (USIDA
Grant) in support to the modernization of the Davao City Publk Safety and Security
Command Center (PSSCC) and for the development of an Intelligent Transpoftation
Management System in the Philippines, for your information and appropriate action.
For the City Mayor:
ATTY. TRISTAN
GO
Assistant
(Mministration)
CTTY MAVOR'S OFFICT
CORRESPONOEXC€ AND RECOiOS DN
RELEASED.
DEC 1.-q 20fl
eurrfi.cltro
aourrxrstRXnvE AIDE tv
Second Floor, City Hall Building, City Hall Drive, San Pedro St., Davao City
(082) 224-3004 o (082) 241-1000 loc. 265 r'-"vaocitymayor@gmail.com ts
e3
LIFE I3 HERE
)
t:

Ref. No. CAdG2019{3eR
3'd INDORSEMEilT
October t,2AL9
Respectfully returned to Ms. Charito N. Santos, Secretary to the SANGGUNIANG
Panlungsod, this City, the within documents and Legal Opinion No. 582, SERIES of 2019
dated September 26, 20L9 of Atty. Marlisa A. Gallo, RSW, Acting Assistant City Legal
Officer, relative to Ordinance No. 041-19, SERIES of 2019 entitled, "AN ORDiNANCE
AUTHORIZING THE CITY MAYOR TO ENTER INTO AND SIGN, ffiR AND IN BEHALF OF
THE CITY GOVERNMENT OF DAVAO, THE GRANT AGREEMENT ENTERED INTO BY
AND BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, ACTING
THROUGH THE U.S. TRADE AND DEVELOPMENT AGENCY (USTDA) AND THE CITY
GOVERNMENT OF DAVAO, FOR THE GRANT OF USD 515,000 (USTDA GRANT) IN
SUPPORT TO THE MODERNIZANON Otr DAVAO CITY PUBUC SAFETY AND SECURITY
COMMAND CENTER (PSSCC) AND FJR THE DEVELOPMENT OF AN INTELLIGENT
TRANSPORTATION MANAGEMEI\T SYSTEM IN THE PHILIPPINES", with thc AtTAChCd
duly signed and notarized Grant Agreement, for signature of the other party.
For the City Mayor:
ATI1T. TRISTAN
Assistant
AIDE IV
{]cl 02 20tg
Second Floor, City Hall Building, City Hall Drive, San Pedro St., Davao City
(082) 224-3004 o (082) 241-1000 loc.265 . davaocitymayor@gmail.com
BY@
LIFE IS HERE
-fr
\
CITYMAYOR
Reip
,F
uuiCbf the
oE'FICEOFTHE
P#ppinds
DIV
RELEASE

=
Republic of thci Philippines -'
oFFrcE oF THE CITY LEGAr OFFTCER
Tel. No. 298-6970
Trunk Line No. 241-1000 Loc26712251230
ATTY.
Ref. No. CLO-2019-0003462
ls INDoRSEMENT
September 26,2019
Respectfully forwarded to the Office of the City Mayor, through the Office
of the City Administrator, both this City, the subject Ordinance, with the
information that this office finds no legal infirmity therein.
Hence, it is recommended that the Ordinance be approved and the
agreement will be executed.
A. GALLO, RSW
Legal opinion lvo. \9!).
SERIES of 2019
Approved by:
ATTY. OSMU
P. VILLANUEVA, JR
Acting City Legal Officer
September 26,20L9
Date approved:
Acting
City Legal Officer
GAL
SEP
Date
$F T}|E
cilT
c;T'f
[kx.!.
nEcE$lrEo sr
'rs1T: 0 2
K
,0n'fD-[r?I
r{
RE: ORDINANCE NO. 041-19, SERIES of 2019 entitled *AN
ORDINANCE AUTHORIZING THE CITY MAYOR TO ENTER INTO
AND SIGN, FOR AND IN BEHALF OF THE CITY GOVERNMENT OF
DAVAO, THE GRANT AGREEMENT ENTERED INTO BY AND
BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF
AMERICA, ACTING THROUGH THE U.S. TRADE AND
DEVELOPMENT AGENCY (USTDA) AND THE CITY GOVERNMENT
oF DAVAO, FOR THE GRANT OF USD 515,000 gUSTDA GRANT) IN
SUPPORT TO THE MODERNIZATION OF THE DAVAO CITY PUBLIC
SAFETY AND SECURTTY COMMAND CENTER (PSSCC) AND THE
DEVELOPMENT OF AN INTELLIGENT TRANSPORTATION
MANAGEMENT SYSTEM IN THE PHILIPPINES."
crI

r{
Ref. No. CAdG2019-03622
URGENT
l"t INDORSEMENT
Sptember 26,2At9
Respectfully forwarded to Atty. Osmundo P. Villanueva, Jr., Officer-InCharge, City Legal Office, this City, the herein documents relative to the attached
Ordinance No. 041-19, SERIES of 2019 entitled, "AN ORDINANCE AUTHORIZING THE
CTTY MAYOR TO ENTER INTO AND SIGN, FOR AND IN BEHALF OF THE CITY
GOVERNMENT OF DAVAO, THE GRANT AGREEMENT ENTERED INTO BY AND
BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF Tl-iE UNfiED SIATES OF AMERICA, ACTir\iG
THROUGH THE U.S. TRADE AND DEVELOPMENT AGENCY (USTDA) AND THE CITY
GOVERNMENT OF DAVAO, FOR THE GRANT OF USD 515,000 (USTDA GRANT) IN
SUPPORT TO THE MODERNIZATION OF DAVAO CMY PUBLIC SAFETY AND SECURITY
COMMAND CENTER (PSSCC) AND FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF AN INTELLIGENT
TRAI\ISPORTATION MANAGEMENT SYSTEM iN Tl-iE PHILIPPINES'; for legai opinion.
For the City Mayor:
ATTY. TRISTAN
P. DOMINGO
Assistant City Ad ministrator
(Administration)

:
aepqqlc_ gl$fPlilipliner
SARA Z. DUTERTE
City Mayor
Madam:
September 26,2019
oq Xrl"I ' 14
ffi
colRESpoNDENCE & RECORDS DtVtStON
RECEIVED
sEP 26 20tg
MARY
o. ALVARADO f)%
CMO CONTAO T:
rv
roc.
09956299702
Pursuant to Sub-SECTION 3, Paragraph C, SECTION 469, Article One, Title Five,
Chapter 3, Book III and SECTION 54 of Book I of Republic Act No. 7160, otherwise
known as the Local Government Code of 1991, we are furnishing you a copy of
Resolution No. 0165-19 and its corresponding Ordinance No. O4L't9, both SERIES of
2AL9, of the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod, with Four (4) copies of the Grant Agreement
entered into by and between the Government of the United States of America, acting
through the U.S. Trade and Development Agency (USTDA) and the City Government of
Davao for the grant of USD 515,000 (USTDA Grant) in support to the modernization of
the Davao City Public Safety and Security Command Center and the development of an
Intelligent Transportation Management System in the Philippines, for signature of both
pafties, for your information, guidance and appropriate action.
Very truly yours,
nOlprrr,{, \. k
cHARrro N. sAt{TOS
Secretary to the Sangguni'ang Panlungsod
(City Government Department Head Il)X
fE
I
t
Pt

Republic of the Philippines-'
ffice of the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod
19th City Council
llh Regular Session
SERIES of 2019
PRESENT:
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
ABSENT:
Vice Mayor Sebastian Z. Dutefte
Councilor Maria Belen S. Acosta
Councilor Danilo C. Dayanghirang
Louie John J. Bonguyan
- Temporary Presiding Officer
Ralph O. Abella
Nilo D. Abellera
Bai Hundra Cassandra Dominique N. Advincula
Wilbefto E. Al-ag
Dante L. Apostol Sr.
Conrado C. Baluran
Jessica M. Bonguyan
Pilar C. Braga
Augusto Javier G. Campos III
Jonard C. Dayap
Edgar P. Ibuyan Jr.
Edgar R. Ibuyan Sr.
Richlyn N. Justol-Baguilod
Pamela A. Librado-Morata
Diosdado Angelo Junior R. Mahipus
Jaffar U. Marohomsalic
Bonifacio E. Militar
Myrna G. L' Dalodo-Ortiz
Antoinette G. Principe-Castrodes
J. Melchor B. Quitain Jr.
Alberto T. Ungab
Mary Joselle D. Villafuerte
Jesus Joseph P. Zozobrado III
- OB-Acting City Mayor
- On Vacation Leave
- On Domestic Emergency Leave
ORDINANCE NO. 041-19
SERIES of 2019
AN ORDINANCE AUTHORIZING THE CITY MAYOR TO ENTER
INTO AND SIGN, FOR AND IN BEHATF OF THE CITY
GOVERNMENT OF DAVAO, THE GRANT AGREEMENT ENTERED
INTO BY AND BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED
STATES OF AMERICA, ACTING THROUGH THE U.S. TRADE A]{D
DEVELOPMENT AGENCY (USTDA) AND THE CrTy GOVERNMENT
oF DAVAO, FOR THE GRANT OF USD 515,000 (USTDA GRAilT)
IN SUPPORT TO THE MODERNIZATION OF DAVAO CITY PUBLIC
SAFETY AilD SECURITY COMMAND CENTER AND THE
DEVETOPMENT OF AN INTELTIGENT TRANSPORTATION
MANAGEMENT SYSTEM IN THE PHILIPPINES
L.-4
I
.t
)r

Page 2.of 3
Ord. No. 041-19
Be it ordained by the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod of Davao City, in session
assembled that:
SECTION 1. TITLE - This Ordinance shall be known as *AN ORDINANCE
AUTHORIZING THE CITY MAYOR TO ENTER INTO AND SIGN, FOR AND IN
BEHATF OF THE CITY GOVERNMEilT OF DAVAO, THE GRANT AGREEMENT
ENTERED INTO BY AND BETWEEil THE GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED
STATES OF AMERICA, ACTING THROUGH THE U.S. TRADE AND
DEVELOPMENT AGENCY (USTDA) AND THE CITY GOVERNMENT OF DAVAO,
FOR THE GRANT OF USD 515,OOO (USTDA GRANT) IN SUPPORT TO THE
MODERNIZATION OF DAVAO CITY PUBLIC SAFETY AND SECURITY
COMMAND CENTER AND THE DEVELOPMENT OF AN INTELLIGENT
TRANSPORTATION MANAGEMENT SYSTEM IN THE PHILIPPINESO.
sEcrrol{ 2. DECLARATTOI{ oF PoLrcY - SECTION 455, (b) (1) (vi) of the
Loca! Government Code provides, to wit:
"For efficient, effective and economical governance the purpose of which
is the general welfare of the city and ib inhabitants purcuant to SECTION
16 of this Code, the city mayor shall represent the city in all its business
tranmctions and sign in its behalf all bondt contracb, obligations, and
such other documents upon authority of the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod
or purcuant to law or ordinance";
SECTION 3. AUTHORITY - The City Mayor is hereby granted legislative
authority to enter into and sign, for and in behalf of the City Government of Davao the
Grant Agreement entered into by and between the Government of the United States
of America, acting through the U.S. Trade and Development Agency (USTDA) and the
City Government of Davao, for the grant of USD 515,000 (USIDA Grant) in suppoft to
the Modernization of Davao City Public Safety and Security Command Center and the
Development of an Intelligent Transportation Management System in the Philippines.
SECTION 4. SEPARABILITY CIAUSE - If, for any reason, any SECTION or
provision of this Ordinance is declared unconstitutional or invalid, other sections or
provisions hereof not affected by such declaration shall continue to be in full force and
effect.
sEcTIOil 5.
upon approval.
-This Ordinance shall take effect immediately
ENACTED, September t7,20t9, by a unanimous vote of all the Members of
the Sanggunian, there being a quorum.

a',"-
.tl
dage 3 of 3
Ord. No. 041-19
CERTIFIED CORRECT:
cnkilM#sk{os
Secretary to the Sangg/niang Panlungsod
ATTESTED:
ATTESTED:
LOUIE JOHN
Temporary Presiding
cns/bern
(City Government Depaftment Head II)rr
ficf 7 t r,ol1
0 2 ocl 2019
2019
*"rfl
City
\pATTY.
T
a
City

\
GRANT AGREEMEI{T
This Grant Agreement is entered into between the Goverrunent of the United States of America,
acting through the U.S. Trade and Development Agency ('USTDa"; and the City Governrnent
of Davao ('Grantee"). USTDA agrees to provide the Grantee under the terms of this Grant
Agreemert USS515,000 ("USTDA Grant") to fund the cost of goods and services required for
technical assistance ("TA") to support the modernization of Davao City Public Saf'ety and Security
Comrnand Center and the development of an Intelligent Transportation Managernent Svstem
("Project") in the Philippines ("Host Counrry").
l. USTDA Funding
The USTDA Grant to be provided under this Grant Agreement shall be used to fund the costs of a
contract between the Grantee and the U.S. firm selected by the Grantee ("Contractor") underwhich
the Contractor will perfbrm the TA ("Contract"). Payment to the Contractor will be made directly
by USTDA on behalf of the Grantee with the USDA Grant funds provided under this Grant
Agreement.
2, Terms of Reference
The terms of refercncc for thc TA ("Terms of Rcfercnce") are attached as Annex I and are hercby
incorporated by rcference into this Grant Agreement. The TA will cxamine the technical,
financial, environmental, and other critical aspects of the proposed Project. The Terms of
Rcference for thc TA shall also be includcd in the Contract.
3. Standards ofConduct
USTDA and the Grantee recognize the existence of standards of conduct fbr public officials and
commercial entities in their respective countries. Therefore, USTDA, the Grantee, and the
Contractor shall not directly or indirectly provide. offbr or promise to provide money or anything
of value to any public official in violation of any United States or Host Country laws relating to
corrupti0n or bribery.
4. Grantee Responsibilities
(A) Support to thc Contrator
The Grantee shall undertake its best efforts to pr-ovide reasonable support for the Contractor,
such as providing office space and secretarial support while the Contractor is performing TA
tasks. The Grantee shall provide the Contractor with all currently available information and
data regarding the Project that is in the possession and./or control of the Grantee. The Grantee
shall facilitate the Contractor's access to the proposed Project site(s) :rs necessary to perform
the TA. The Grantee shall provide guidance to the Contraclor on the Contractor's proposed
approach to contacting information sourccs in the Philippines, and rcvicw and reach an

agrccmcnt with thc Contractor on the Contractor's plan to contact and meet rvith other relevant
stakeholders.
USTDA acknowledges that the Grantee will include in the Contract a requirement that
information that is clearly labelled as confidential infbrmation and is obtained during the terms
of the Contract shall only be used for purposes of perfonning the TA.
(B) Technical Direction
Thc Grantee shall ensure that thc TA is overseen solcly by technical experts, in particulir,
Projcct Manager, Tristan Dwight P. Domingo, and the Assistant Project Manager, Rowcna
Hcncdine D. Narajos. Thc Project Managcr and Assistant Project Manager shall: (i) serve as
thc ovcrall prqect managcrs; (ii) coordinate thc input of the relevant government departmcnrs;
(iii) make technical decisions regarding the final work product, as necessary to carry out the
TA and Project Implementation; and (iv) serv'e as the designated points of contact for the TA
for USTDA and the Contractor. The Grantee shall submit any change in the project managers
of the TA to USTDA for approval. Failure to inform USTDA of such a change, Lr obtain such
approval may result in delays in disbursements under the Grant agreelnent or termination, as
described in Article l9 below.
5. Contract Matters and USTDA's Rights as Financier
(A) Grantee Competitive Selection Procedures
Selcction of the U.S. Contractor shall bc carried out by the Grantee according to its established
procedures for the competitivc selection of contractors with advance notice of thc procuremcnr
published online through Federal Business opporfiutities (u,v,v'.fedbizopps.gov). Upon
request, the Grantee will submit these contracting procedures and related documents to
USTDA for information and/or approval.
(B) USTDA's Right to Approve Contractor Selection
The Grantee shall noti{y USDA at the address of record set forth in Article l6 below upon
selection of the Contraclor to perform the TA. USTDA then shall notiff the Grantee wherher
or not TJSTDA approves the Grantee's Contractor selection. Upon USTDA approval of the
Grantee's Contractor selection, the Grantee shall notifu in writing the U.S. firms that submirtcd
unsuccessful proposals to pcrform the TA that thcy wcre not selected. The Grantee and the
Contractor then shall enter into a Contract for pcrformancc of the TA.
(C) USTDA's Right to Approve Contract Between Grantee and Contractor
(l)
Contract
The Grantee and the Contractor shall enter into a Contract for performance
of the TA. The Grantee (or the Contractor on the Grantee's behalf)
shall transmit to USTDA, aI the address set forth in Article l6 below,
a photocopy of an English languagc vcrsion of thc signed Contract or a

final negotiatcd draft version of the contract. usrDA then shall notifo the
Grantee and the contractor whether or not usmA approves the contract.
(2)
Amendments and Assignments
The Grantee or the Contractor may subrnit any proposed amendment to
the Contract, including any proposed amendment to any annex thereto, or
any proposed assignment of the Contract, ro USTDA at the address set
forth in Articlc l6 below. USTDA then shall notiSr thc Grantee and the
Contractor whether or not USDA approves the proposed amendment or
assignment.
(E) Grant Agreement Controlling
Regardless of USTDA approval, the rights and obligations of any part-v to thc Contract or imy
subcontract thereunder must be consistent with this Grant Agreement. In thc event of any
inconsistcncy bctween the Grant Agreement and the Contract or any subcontract funded by the
Grant Agrcement, the Grant Agrecmcnt shall control.
6. Disbursement Procedures
(A) USTDA Approval of Contract Required
USTDA will make disbursements of USTDA Grant frrnds directly to the Contractor only after
USTDA approves the Grantee's Contract with the Contractor,
(D) USTDA Not a Party to the Contract
It is understood by the parties that USTDA has reserved certain rights such as, but not limited
to, the right to approve the terms of the Contract and any amendments thereto, including
assignments, the selection of all contractors, the Terms of Reference, the Final Report, and any
and all docurnents related to any Contract funded under the Grant Agreement. The parties
hereto further understand and agree that USTDA, in reserving any or all of the foregoing
approval rights, has acted solely as a financing entity to assure the proper use of U.S.
Govcmment funds, and that any decision by USTDA to exercise or refrain from exercising
these appnrval rights shall be made as a furancier in the course of firnding rhe TA and shall not
be construed as making USDA a party to the Contract. The pilries hercro understand and
agree that USDA may, from time to time, exercise the foregoing approval rights, or discuss
matters related to these rights and the Project with the parties to the Contract or any
subcontract, jointly or separately, without thereby incurring any responsibility or liability to
such parties. Any approval or failure to approve by USTDA shall not bar the Crantee or
USTDA f?om asserting any right they might have against the Contractor, or relieve the
Contractor of any liability which the Contractor might otherwise have to the Grantee or
USTDA.

(B) Contractor Invoice Requirements
The Grantee should request disbursement of funds by USTDA to the Contractor for
perfotmance of the TA by submitting invoices in accordance with the procedures set forth in
the USTDA Mandatory Contract Clauses in Annex IL
7. Effective Date
The cffectivc date of this Grant Agreement ("Effective Date") shall be the date of signarure by
both partie.s or, if the parties sigr on differcnt dates. the date of the last sigrature. In the event thar
only one signature is datcd, such date shall constiruk thc Effective Date.
8. TA Schedule
(A) TA Completion Date
The completion date for the TA, which is March 31,2021 is the date by which the parties
estimate that the TA will have been completed.
(B) Tlme l,imitation on Disbursement of USTDA Grant Funds
Except as USTDA may otherwise agrec, (i) no USTDA funds may be disbursed under this
Grant Agreement for goods and serviccs which are provided prior to the Efl'ective Date of the
Grant Agrccment; and (ii) no USTDA funds may be disbursed more than four (4) years after
the Effective Date of thc Grant Agreement.
9. USTDA Mandatory Contract Clauses
All contracts funded under this Grant Agreement shall include the USTDA Mandatory Contract
Clauses set forth in Annex [I to this Grant Agreement. All subcontracts funded orpartially funded
with USTDA Grant funds shall include the USTDA Mandatory Contract Clauses, except for
Clauses 81l ), G, H, I, and S.
10. Use of U.S. Carriers
(A) Air
Transportation by air of persons or propeny funded under this Grant Agreement shall be on
U.S. flag carriers in accordance with the Fly America Act,49 U.S.C. +0ltg, to the exrent
service by such carriers is available. as provided under applicable U.S. Govemment
regulations.
(B) Marine
Transponation by sea of property fundcd under
in accordance with U.S. cargo preference law.
this Grant Agreement shall be on U.S. carriers

ll. Nationality, Source and Origin
Except as USTDA may otherwise agree, the following provisions shall govern the delivery of
goods and professional services funded by USTDA under the Grant Agreement:
(a) the ConFactor must be a U.S. firm;
(b) the Contractor may use U.S. subcontractors without limitation;
(c) employees of U.S. Contractor or U.S. subcontractor fi.rms shall bc U.S. citizens, non-U.S.
citizens lawfully admitted for pcrmanent residence in the Unitcd Statcs or non-U.S. citizens
lawfully admitted to work in thc United States, except as provided pursuant to subpart (d) below;
(d) up to twenty percent (20%\ of the USTDA Grant amount may be used to pay for services
performed by (i) Host Country subcontractors. and/or (ii) Host Country nationals who are
employees of the Contractor;
(e) a Host Country subconffactor rnay only be used for specific services from the Tenns of
Reference identified in the subcontract;
(0 subcontractors from countrics other than the United States or Host Country may not be used;
(g) goods purchased for performance of the TA and as.sociated delivcry scrvices (c.g., intemational
transportation and insurance) must havc their nationality, source and origin in the United States:
and
(h) goods and services incidental to TA support (e.g.. local lodging, food, and transportation) in
Host Counfiy are not subject to the above restrictions.
USDA will make available further details concerning these provisions upon request
12. Taxes
USTDA funds provided undcr this Grant Agreement shall not be used to pay any taxes, tariffs,
dutie s, fees or other levies imposed under laws in effect in Host Country, except for taxes of a de
minimis nature imposed on local lodging, food, transportation, or airport arrivals or deparnrrcs
Ncither the Grantee nor the Contractor will seek reimbursement from USTDA for taxcs, tariffs.
duties, fees or other levies, except for taxes of a de minimis nafure referenced above.

13. USTDA Project Evaluation
The parties will cooperate to assure that the purposes of the Grant Agreement are accomplished.
For five (5) years fbllowing receipt by USTDA of the Final Report, the Grantee agrees to respond
to any reasonable inquiries from USTDA about the status of the Project. Inquiries will include,
but not be limited to, whetlrer the Final Report recomrnendations have been or will be used to
implement the Project. anticipated Project implementation timeline, and likely source of financing.
ln addition, the Grantee agrees to noti| USDA arry time the Grantee selects a new primary
contact person for this Project during the five-year period referenced above.
14. Recordkeeplng and Audlt
The Crantee agrees to maintain books, records, and other documents relating to the TA and this
Grant Agreement adequate to demonstrate implementation of its responsibilities under this Grant
Agreement, including the selection of contmctors, receipt and approval of Contract deliverables,
and approval or disapproval of Contractor invoices fbr payment by USTDA, Such books. records,
and other documents shall be separately maintained for three (3) years after the date of the final
disbursement by USTDA. The Grantee shall affbrd USTDA or its authorized representatives the
opporrunity at reasonable times to review books, records, and other documents relating to the TA
and the Grant Agreement.
15. Representation of Parties
For all purposes relcvant to this Grant Agreement, the Govemment of the United States of America
will bc reprcsented by the U. S. Ambassador to Host Country or USTDA and Granrec will be
represented by its City Mayor, Sara Z. Duterte, and her duly authorized representative, Attomey
Tristan Dwight P. Domingo, Assistant Ciry Administrator. The parties hereto may, by written
notice, designate additional representatives for all purposes under this Grant Agreement.
16. Addresses of Record for Parties
Any notice, request, document, or othff communication submitted by either parry to the other
under the Grant Agreement shall be in writing or through zur clectronic medium that produces a
tangiblc rccord of the transmission, such as a facsimile or e-mail message, and will be deemed
duly given or sent when delivercd to such party at the following:
To: Thc City Govemment of Davao,
Ciry Hall of Davao
San Pedro Street, Davao City
Philippines, 8000
Phone:
(6382) 241 1000 loc.214
E-Mail:
cado.admGldavaocit),.sov.ph
U.S. Trade and Development Agcncy
1l0l Wilson Boulcvard. Suitc I100
To:

Arlington, Virginia 22209-227 5
USA
Phone:
Fax:
E-Mail:
Appropriation No
Activiry No.:
Reservation No.:
Grant No.:
(703\ 87543s7
(7O3) 997-23e2
In doPac i fi c(a)us tda. gov
I I r9l20 1001
201 9-3 l0l 7A
20191 I I
l l3 rPLr 9GH3 ll l l
All such communications shall be in English, unless the parties otherwise agree in writing. In
addition, thc Grantce shall providc thc Commcrcial or Economic SECTION of the U.S. Embassy in
Host Country with a copy of cach communication scnt to USTDA.
Any communication relating to this Grant Agreement shall include the following fiscal data:
17. Implementation Letters
To assist thc Grantec in the implementation of thc TA, USTDA may, from timc to timc, issue
implementation lettcrs that will provide additional information about matrers covered by this Grurt
Agreement. USTDA may also issue implcmentation lctters to (i) extend the estimatcd completion
date set forth in Article 8(A) above, or (ii) change the fiscal data set forth in Articlc l6 above. The
panies may also usc jointly agreed upon implementation letters to confirm and rccord thcir mutual
understanding of matters covered by this Grant Agreement.
18. Grant Agreement Amendments
Either party may submit to the other party at any time a proposed amendment to the Grant
Agreement. A Grant Agreement amendment shall be effective only if it has been signed by both
parties.
19. Termination Clause
Either party may terminate this Grant Agrccmcnt by giving the other party written notice thcreof.
Thc termination of thc Grant Agrccmcnt will end any obligations of thc parlies to providc financial
or other resources for the TA, except for payments that may be made pursuant to Clause H of the
USTDA Mandatory Contract Clauses set forth in Annex II to this Grant Agreement. This article
and Articles 5, 12, 13, 14, and 2l of the Grant Agreement shall surv'ive termination of the Grant
Agreement.
20. Non-waiver of Rights and Remedies
No delay in exercising any right or remedy accruing to eitlrcr party in connection with the Grant
Agreemcnt shall be construed as a waiver of such right or rcmedy

21. U.S. Technology and Equipment
By funding this TA, USTDA seeks to promote the project objectives of the Host Country through
the use of U.S. technology, goods, and services. In recognition of this purpose, the Grantee agrees
that it will allow U.S. suppliers to cornpete in the procurement of technology, goods and senices
needed fbr Project irnplementation. This Agreement does not obligate the Grantee to choose U.S.
suppliers for Project implementation.
22. Governing Law
This Grant Agrecment shall be govcmed by, and construed in accordance with, the applicable laws
of the Unitcd States of America. ln the absence of fcderal lau', the laws of the State of New York
shall apply.
23. Counterparts
This Grant Agreement may be executed in counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original,
but all of which together shall constitute one and the same agreement. Counterparts may be
delivered via electronic rnail or other ransmission method and any counterpart so delivered shall
be deemed to be valid and efl'ective fbr all purposes.
ITHE REMAINDER OF THIS PAGE IS INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANKI

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Government of the United States of America and the City
Government of Davao each acting through its duly authorized representative, have caused this
Grant Agreement to be signed in the English language in their nanres and delivered as of the day
and ycar written bclow. In thc cvent that this Grant Agrccmcnt is signcd in morc than onc
Ianguagc. the English ltrnguagc vcrsion shall govcrn.
For the Government of the
United States of America
(Acting)
Witnessed:
Annex I .- Terms of Reference
For the Ci$ Government of Davao
By:
R.
O
of Davaoty
Witnessed:
By
T. Lopcz
City Administrator
By:
f6
Tristan Drfght Dhu1r6
Asst. CiryMinistraror
Annex II - USTDA Mandatory Contract Clauses
"^,"frt kr4fut1

Annex I
Terms of Reference
Objective
This Technical Assistance ("TA") for the City Government of Davao ("Grantee") will
support the modernization or upgrade of the Davao City's Public Safety and Securiry
Command Center operational capabilities and the developmcnt of an Intelligent
Transponation Mamagement Systcm ("Project"). The primary objective of the Project is
to upgrade information and communication tcchnology ("ICT") infrasfiucture for the city's
opcrations command center, including communication.s, emcrgency managernent, and
transportation management systcms. Thc TA will cvaluatc the tcchnical, financial. and
other key elements of the Project and provide detailed analysis, plans, and specifications
necessary to implement the Project.
General Considerations fbr Deliverables and Docurnents
The Contractor shall perform the following tasks described in these terms of reference
("TOR"). All data collected. designs made, and/or analyses produced by the Contractor in
the performancc of each task ("Task") undcr the TA shall be docurneated in written repofts
and constitute a deliverable ("Dclivcrable") in thc manner dcscribcd below. Thc interim
Dcliverables specified in the TOR shall serve to keep the Grantee informcd about the
Contractor's work and to ensure that the Contractor's findings are acceptable to the Grantee
bcforc critical decisions are madc. The Contractor shall undertakc a quality control review
process, including a technical and editorial review, of all Deliverables and documents
submitted to the Grantee to ensure accuracy, consistency, and readability.
The Grantee shall be solely responsible for any costs incurred by the Grantee for technical
labor, trave[ and/or support provided by the Grantee to the Contractor in performance of
the TA as desmibed in the TOR.
Backqround
Davao City Smart City Projects
Davao City was among the first cities in the Philippines to have a civilian-lcd safcty and
security command center and its perlbrmance is often regarded as a model for other local
governlnent units to emulate. The Public Safety and Security Command Center ("PSSCC")
a civilian-led emergency operations center of Davao City under the Cit-v Government of
Davao is responsible for orchestrating public safety and response activities, including 9l I
seruices or emergency dispatch, disaster risk managernent, and inter-agency coordination.
The Ciry Government of Davao also has a City Transport and Traffic Management Office
("CTTMO') that handles traffic management and road safety, including video monitoring.
Annex I-l
t

The City recognizes that modcm information infrastructure is essential to maintaining
public safety, improving emergency response times, and addressing urban traffic
challenges. The existing Intelligent Operations Center sysrem was implemented in 2OlZ2013, and its Traffic Signalization System was implemented in 2004-2OlO. Currently, the
City seeks to update and modemize its capabilities with appropriate latest-generation
technology plaffbrms, applications and data management tools.
Overall, the City Government of Davao envisions to create a community that hamesses
digital connectivity and technological advancement in providing high-quality living and a
safe and sccured environment for ils citizenry. Thus, rhe inccption of nvo (2) Smart City
Projccts:
.
Enhanced Capability of its Emergency Operations, particularly a Converged
Command and Control Center, adopting tcchnological solutions which will
enable efficient collaboration among agencies to ensure near, if not real time
information which is critical in handling the overall safety and security of the city;
and,
. Intelligent Transport Management Systems, using technology to address the
growing challenges on transportation and traffic in the city at the same time ensure
security and safety ofthe general public.
Task l: KickoffMeetins
Information Gatherins
Prior to traveling to the Philippines to meet with the Grantee, the Contractor shall perform
secondary research on the Philippincs and Davao City ICT environment. The Contractor
shall review public strategic plans, reports and news articles in sufficient detail to establish
a baseline of market understanding of planned and ongoing initiatives with respect to local
operating conditions and trends.
Subtask l.l : Informarion Request and Review
The Contractor shall review written material provided by the Grantee including: City
Government of Davao Information & Communications Technology Policy and Standards;
Public Safety and Security Command Centcr bricfing presentation: Davao City Disaster
Risk Reduction and Managernent Offrce ICT Systems briefing presentations; and other
materials that facilitate the Contractor's understanding of thc projcct context.
The Contractor shall prepare a Request for Information ("RFI") for submission to the
Grantee for additional information and data in the Grantee's possession. The Grantee shatl
provide the Contractor with additional information, if available, within seven (7) calendar
days. At minimum, the Grantee shall provide the Contractor with reports, policy studies,
technical plans, network tests and audits and other documentation available related to the
ICT systems and operational resources at the PSSCC and CTTMO.
The Grantee shall provide currcnt and pa-st documents relatcd to City Government of Davao
and PSSCC technology modernization effofis that might havc been prepared internally or
Anlrcx I-2
a

\
a
a
a
by extemalpalficrs and funding institutions; past network technology and network traffic
studies; and related information. The Contractor shall review any additional relevant
documentation furnished by the Grantee in response to the RFI and prepare for the kickoffmeeting as detailed under Subtask 1.3.
Subtask 1.2: TA Workolan
Within fourteen ( l4) days following the document review, the Contractor shall develop a
work plan ("Work Plan") for the TA. The Work Plan shall:
Clearly define a methodology foraccomplishing the tasks defincd in the TOR including
a communication plan and the Contractor's projected travcl schedule;
Identifu the respective roles and responsibiliries of all participants in each Task
including roles and responsibilities of the Grantee;
Identiff information gaps in the Grantee's response to the Contractor's RFI, if any, antl
propose how the Contractor intends to collect the information required;
Include a dctailed schedule and Projcct management plan ("Project Management Plan")
including key activities, milestones and human resources for carrying out the Tasks
outlined in the TOR, which shall be prepared in Microsoft Project Manager or a similar
software as agreed upon in consultation with the Grantee; and
Identiff change management plans and processes, including change management
approvers and effects ofchanges to key tasks, milestones and human resources required
for successful implementation and operations of the Project.
The Contractor shall submit the Work Plan to the Grantee onc (l) week prior ro the kickoff meeting. The Grantee shall review and comment on the Work Plan. The Contractor
and the Grantee shall agree upon the Work Plan and the Work Plan shall form the basis for
monitoring the Contractor's progress and any deviation from the agreed-upon Work Plan
approach. The Contractor shall report any deviation or anticipated deviation from the
Work Plan to the Grantee and USTDA.
Subtask 1.3: Kick-off Meeting
Within thirty (30) days of contract signing (unless otherwisc mutually agreed betwcen thc
Contractor zurd Grantee), the Contractor shall travel to Davao City to conduct a kick-off
meeting with thc Grantee. The Contractor shall inkoduce thc Contractor's team and rcvicw
the TA objectivcs, which shall includc analyses to be undcrtaken and a review of thc Work
Plan. The Grantee shall identiff appropriate personnel and other relevant stakeholders to
pafticipate in the kick-offmeeting. The parties shall also identiSz the appropriate staff from
the Grantcc to assist the Contractor during the TA. During the kick-off meeting, the
Contractor, in consultation with the Grantee, shall identi$ key internal and extemal
stakeho I dcrs for subsequ ent Ta.s k activ iti es.
Task I Deliverable.' The Contractor's deliverable for Task I ("Task I Report") shall
incorporate all findings, analyses and recommendations derived from the work perfomed
a
under Task l, including but not limited to:
Anncx I-2

. A summary of the TA objectives and initial observations based on the data and
information made available to the Contractor;
. A copy of the RFI, including the Grantee's response to the RFI, as well as a list of
all the documentation and infonnation received for Task I;
o Detailed minutes of the kick-off nreeting with the Grantee, including name. ritle,
organization and contact information of all participallts;
o A finalized Work Plan that incorporates fecdback provided by the Grantce;
. A copy of the Contractor's proposed project Management plan; and
r A list of internal and external stakeholdcrs identificd, including their names and
contact information for discussions ard interviews in subsequent Tasks.
The Contractor shall provide the Grantee with a draft Task I Report for rcview and
comments. The Grantee shall provide comments, if any, on the draft report within seven
(7) calendar days of receiving it. The Contractor shall incorporate the Grantee's comments,
to the extent possible, and issue a final Task I Report within seven (7) days of receiving
the Grantee's comments.
Task 2: Situation Asressment and New Technolow Evaluation
In order to assurc that the modemization of the City's PSSCC and CTTMO is informcd by
a deep understanding of operational requironents, the Contractor shall prepare an in-deptir
a.s.sessment of the "As-is" ICT infrastructurc and operational environment at PSSCC and
CTTMO, addrcssing thc ciry's ccntralize<l opelations, communications. emergency
management, and kansportation management functions. The assessment shall include an
examination of PSSCC and CTTMO workflow processes, ICT infrastructure, systems and
services (e.g., sen'ers, storage, networks, applications, cybersecurity, etc.). and desired
future-state capability. Across all technology areas, the Contractor shall detennine which
aspects of existing platforms can be modified or require replacement; identiff gaps and
opportunities for improving data sharing and interoperability between applications and
government departments; and recommend technologies and/or tactics. techniques and
procedures that augment PSSCC's and CTTMO's overall siruational awarcness and
capabilities.
Subtask 2.1: CCTV Monitorins Svstem
The Contractor shall perform a detailed assessment of existing Davao City monitodng
systems, project future needs and determine optimal technological and service upgradeg
including but not limited to:
r Evaluating existing carneta technology and supporting infrastructure;
'
Analyzing current and planned camera locations in the context of PSSCTC and
CTTMO expansion plans;
o ldenti&ing opportunities for introducing comprchensive video analytic solurions;
and
o ldenti&ing data correlation, sharing and analytic requirements.
Annex I-2

Subtask 2.2: Command Oocrations Centcr
The Contractor shall perform a detailed assessment of existing command operations center
systems, project future needs and determine optimal technological and service upgrades,
including, but not limited to:
e Assess the network operations center platforms, applications and procedures in the
context of global best practices and future PSSCC operational objectives;
o Assess data intcgratiott and data fedcration approaches within PSSCC and
intcropcrabili ty requiremenLs wi th other organizations ;
o Assess technical and opcrational methods for establishing improved incidcnt
rnanagement and a comlnon operational picture for emergency operations;
o Assess GIS and geospatial rnapping capabilities and identiff needs associated with
incident managcmcnt, creating and syndicating common opcrational pictures, and
othcr emergency management operations;
o ldentifu optimal enhancements to emergency (9ll) call center systems, data
correlation and operational procedures; and
o Examine gaps in current technology approach relative to future traffrc management
objectives.
Subtask 2.3: Traflic Managcment System
Thc Contractor shall perform a detailed asscssmeat of existing traffic management
systems. project futurc need.s and determine optimal technological and service upgrades,
including. but not limitcd to:
o Review planned transportation related infrastructure projects including the High
Priority Bus System planned railway systems being proposed in the city and traffic
signalization system rnaintenance and upgrade;Review and analyze traffic studies
and data from PSSCC / CffMO, third-party contractors, local transport oflice Land
Transportation office (LTo), Depa(ment of Public works and Highways, Land
Transportation Franchising and Regulatory Board (LTFRB) and extemally funded
studies, including JICA and ADB;
r A.sses.s traffic signals and signalization .system and anticipate future requirement.s;
o Asscss traffic, parking, environmental dcvice location and functionality in the
context of traffic data and anticipate future requirements;
r Asses current solutions and future approaches fbr automated fine collection;
o tdentiff opportunities for smart parking solutions; and
o Examine gaps in current technology approach relative to future traffrc management
objectives. (e.g. traffic apprehension and enforcement and its connectivity ro the
existing national government (Philippines Deparhnent of Transportation, Land
Transportation Office) system or database
Subtask 2.4: ICT infrastructure
The Contractor shall perform a detailed assessment of existing systerls, project future
necds, and determine optimal technological turd scrvice upgrades related for both PSSCC
and CTTMO, including but not limitcd to the following:
Anncx I-2

2.4.1'
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
o
Communi cations infrastructure and services
Wide area radio networks
Mobile networks
Unified comnrunications, including interoperability with local and national
authorities
ln teroperabi I i ty wi th other governm en t departm ents
Fixed network
Citizen emergency communications
Remote sensor connectiviry
Redundancy, resi lience and portable communications systems.
2.4.2: Enterpri se Archi tecture
o Data center
o Servers
o Storage
o Databases
o Data policy
Subtask 2.5: Cybersecuritv
The Contractor shall perform detailed assessment of existing systems, project future needs,
and dctermine optimal technological antl scrvice upgrades related to the Project
cybersecurity requiremcnls, including but not Iimited to:
.
Cybersecurity policy and operations
o Cybersecurity systems, tools and applications
Subtask 2.6: New Technoloeies
Based on the findings of the previous subtasks (2.1 through 2.5), the Contractor shall
rccommend appropriatc new technologies and solutions rclated to emergency operations
and traffic management for PSSCC and CTTMO consideration, including but not limited
to:
r lntelligent transportation system ("ITS")l
o Sensors / internet of things ("[oT");
r
Smart poles and intelligent controllers;
o Mobile device tracking;
o Vehicle sensors tracking;
o Traffic simulation to include big data analytic tools;
e Image readers and identification systems;
. Artificial intelligence and data analytic tools;
o Cloud computing and storage services;
o Advanced travcler information systcm ("ATIS");
o Floating car data (''FCD");
o Ridc hailing;
o Bike sharing; and
Annex I-2

a
Urban sensing.
Task 2 Deliveroble.' The Contractor's Deliverable for Task 2 ("Task 2 Report") shall
incorporate all findings, analyses and recommendations derived from the work performed
under Task 2. The Deliverable shall include a written report that provides a detailed
assessment ofPSSCC 's ICT modernization initiatives related to emergency operations and
CTTMO's traffic management systenr. The Task 2 Report shall include sufficient technical
detail to provide a comprehensive analysis of current and furure plans ftrr technology
invcstments ovcr a fivc-year period, and provide a vision for long-rarnge tcchnology
strategy over l0 years. The Contractor shall provide the Crrantee with a draft Task 2 Report
for rcview and comments. The Grantce shall provide comments, if any, on the draft rcport
within seven (7) calendar days of receiving it, Thc Contractor shall incorporate the
Grantee's comments, to the extent possible, and issue a final Task 2 Report within seven
(7) days of receiving Grantee's comments.
Task 3: Plannins Workshoo
The Contractor shall prepare and conduct a nvo-day workshop ("workshop") in Davao
City on emergency operations and traffic management solutions, best practices and
migration strategies for PSSCC /CT'[MO and associated City Govemment departments.
The workshop shall provide a comprchcnsive summary of Task 2 findings, and an
overview of technologies and solutions appropriate to the operational context at PSSCC
and CTTMO. In addition, the Contractor shall outline its preliminary technical
recommendations that will be further expanded in Task 4, and seek feedback and
clarification on the design principles for the proposed approach. Each day of the Workshop
shall accommodate up to 40 participants to be identified by the Grantee, with appropriate
specialists represented on the topic for the day. The Grantee shall serve as host for the
Workshop and provide a room faciliry, audio and visual presentation equipment, attendee
registration seruices, and coffee break and lunch service for the Workshop participants.
Subtask 3.I: Workshop Preparation
The Contractor shall prepare the Workshop agatda, content, and presentations and
coordinate the organization and content of thc workshop with the Grantee.
Subtask 3.2:Workshop
In consultation with the Grantee, the Contractor shall deliver a one to three-day Workshop
covering the following topics, at a rninimum:
Emergency Operations
Integrated emergency operations best practices for Davao City;
PSSCC assets and stmtegy;
Tcchnologies and solutions;
Integration and interoperability challenges;
o
o
o
o
Anncx I-2

o Data polices and cybersccurity: and
o Other topics, to be decided in consultation with the Grantee
Traffic Management
o Smart traffic managetnent best practices for Davao City;
o CffMO assc6 and srratcgy;
o Technologies and solutions;
o Integration and interoperability challenges; and
o Other topics, to be rlecided in consultation with thc Grantee.
Task 3 Deliverable.' The Contractor's Deliverable for Task 3 ("Task 3 Report") shall
incorporate all findings, analyses and recommendations derived from the work performed
under Task 3. The Deliverable shall spccifically include:
o Copies of all presentations and materials developed and delivered at the Workshop;
and
.
Written report of up to l0 pages that summarizes the key topics, observations and
recommerdations from the Workshop discussion and sessions.
The Contractor shall provide the Grantee with a Draft Task 3 Report for review and
commenLs. Thc Grantee shall provide conunents, if any, on the draft rcport within seven
(7) calendar days of receiving it. The Contractor shall incorporate the Grantee's comments
to the extent possible and issue a final Task 3 Report *'ithin seven (7) days of receiving the
Grantee's comments.
Task 4: Platform Desisn and Technical Soecification
Building upon work completed under Task 2-3, in Task 4 the Confactor shall define and
prepare vendor-neutral Project plans and technical specifications to meet the Grantee's
projected requirements to: I ) modernize and upgrade the PSSCC operations command
ccntcr urd cmcrgency cornmunications systcms; 2) modernize and upgrade the CTTMO
traffic management system; and 3) integrate existing systems with the proposed new
platforms and improve unified command and control capability. The vendor-ncutral
Project plans and technical specifications shall be in sufficicnt dctail to enable the Grantee
to solicit commcrcial solutions througlr a compaitive tendcr or negotiated procurement
process.
Subtask 4. l; Definition of Operations
Solutions
The Contractor shall recommend a technology and operational design to upgrade the
Grantee's existing PSSCC operations command center, including communications and
emergency managentent systems. The Contractor shall determine which elements of the
cxisting system, if any, should bc preserved or rqllaced. At a minimum the modemization
design shall address:
.
CCTV monitoring system and backend cquipmcnt;
Anncx I-2

ICT infrastructure for data processing, communications, sensors and unified
communication, including data center, servers, storage, cloud services and related
platforms;
Expanded video analytics functionality, including image readers and recognition
systems;
Expanded data analyics functionality, included data analyics from scnsors, image
processing, data ba.ses and data lakes, data sharing with othcr departments, and big
data analytic tools;
Expandcd gcospatial data capability including improvcd GIS and incident
management system; and
Com prch ensi ve cybersecuri ry* platform.
Subtask 4.2: Definition of Smart Traffic Solutions
Taking into account the information and inputs collected under the prior Tasks I -3, the
Contractor shall develop and recommend a smart or an Intelligent Traffrc Management
System for the Grantee's consideration that lbcuses on traffic monitoring, dynamic haffic
management, remote sensors, video and data analytics, violation management, including
"no contact" apprehensions, and smart parking applications. The Contractor shall also
prepare a high-level concept of operations that articulates the practical aspects of managing
the proposed service scenario for thc CTTMO and traffic management system. The
Contractor shall prepare a technical definition for the traflic monitoring platform, which
shall include a high-level technology architecture; refinement of system functionality and
features; and hardware, software, integration and managemcnt requirements at start-up and
over a S-year period rcflccting thc Projcct's cvolution. Thc Contractor's tcchnical
definition and architecture shall, at minimum, include the following components:
.
Dynamic traffic analysis and planning;
r Traffic cameras;
o lmage analysis;
. Vehicle, pedestrian and motion sensors;
o Automatcd fine collection;
.
"No contact" traffic violation apprehension and enforcement;
o Intclligent devicc controllers;
. Traffic and parking management applications (meterless parking; congestion
pricing; license plate readers; automatic violation ticketing; parking violations
applications; parking place monitoring; multi-rnodal traffic assessment and
planning; others, to be decided);
.
Supporting networking, data processing and data analysis requirements;
o [nterfaces and integration requirements for external data sources such as other
stakeholders and/or social media platforms (e.g., weather, GPS location, mapping);
o ldentity management and cybersecurity; and
r Other parametcrs to be detsrmined in consultation with the Grantec.
a
a
a
a
Annex I-2

Subtask 4.3 : Solution Intceration Rcquiremcnts
The Contractor shall assess and recommended the integration requirements needed to
incorporate the upgraded operations command center functionalities. including
conrtnunications, ernergency managernent and transportation management systerns with
the Grantee's existing technical infrasfructure. The objecive of this subtask is to inform
the Grantee about the potential scope of technical integration resources required to
accomplish the modernization program; anticipate potential implementation risks;
rccommend optimal tcrms and conditions for vcndor contracts; and estimatc thc cost of
integration services over time for thc Project. Spccific areas to bc addresscd by this subtask
shall includc:
. Ovcrview and prioritization of integration tasks;
o Estimate resource requirement and budgetary estinrate of integration;
o Perfonnance benchmarks and key performance indicators ("KPI"):
o Terms and conditions for seruice integration contracts.
Subtask 4.4: Implementation PIan
The Contractor shall prepare an irnplementation plan for the Project that identifies and
assesses potential obstacles in the implementation of the Project and recommend steps to
mitigate barriers that could negatively impact success. The Contractor shall develop a
detailed and comprehensive implementation plan ("Implementation PIan") for the
operations command center, including communications systems, emergency management
systems, and transportation management systems. The Contractor shall provide a detailed
description of all work needed and financial and human resources required to irnplement
the Projects. The Project descriptions shall include, but not be limited to, personnel and
personnel qualifications, timelines, environmental and social irnpact assessment activities,
permitting, and recommended contracting and procurement methodologies. The
Contractor shall discuss the Implcmcntation Plan with thc Grantce and solicit fecdback to
ensure usability of thc Implcmcntation Plan.
Subtask 4.5: Organizational Structure
The Contractor shall define organizational structures and coordination processes to
facilitate govemance and data sharing betu'een the Grantee's different departments, in
addition to external stakeholders or entities in Davao City. The Contractor shall also
recomrnend optimal organizational structures and human capacity training requirernents to
supporl the implementation of the operational comnrand center, including
communications, emergency management, and transportation management systEms.
Task 4 Deliverahle: Thc Contractor's Deliverable for Task 4 ("Task 4 Rcport") shall
incorporatc all findings, uralyscs and rccommendations dcrived from the work performcd
undcr Ta-sk 4, including but not limitcd to, definition and rccommendations for smart
solutions; systern integration rcquiremenls; implementation plan and organizational
strrcturc for the Project. The Contractor shall provide the Grantec with a draft Task 4
Report for review and comments. The Grantee shall provide comments, if any, on the draft
Annex I-2

report within two weeks of rcceiving it. Thc Contractor shall incorporate thc Grantcc's
comments, to the extent possible, and issue a Final Task 4 Report within one week of
receiving the Grantee's comments.
Task 5: Financial Analvsis and Financine Plan
The Contractor shall specifr the amount of funding required to implernent the Project
components identificd in Tasks 2-4, including rcquirements for modcmization or upgradc
of the Davao City PSSCC or its operations command ccntcr, including communications,
cmcrgency rcsponsc, and existing transportation management systems. In con^sultation
with thc Grantee, thc Contractor may address the budget and financial analysis as discrete
subcomponents or as a single package. The Contractor shall prepare a comprehensive
financial analysis to demonstrate startup costs and operational costs over time, and assess
altemative sources of funding and Project financing models. The financial analysis shall
include a detailed financial model that captures initial capital costs; long-term operational
costs; financial perfonnance indicators (e.g. debt-to-equity ratio; debt service ratio; and
financial internal rate of return ("FIRR"); retum on equity and other factors. The financial
analysis shall be presented in pro forma spreadsheets over a S-year operating period for the
Project.
ln addition, the Contractor shall perform a sensitivity analysis rclated to Projcct risk,
including, but not limited to capital expexses: operational expenses; maintenance costs:
inflation indices; exchange ratcs: and funding terrns.
Based on the financial model(s), financial and sensitivity analyses, the Contractor shall
prepare a financing plan for the implementation of the Project. The financing plan shall
include a strategy for securing financing based on discussions with the Grantee, potential
lenders, and potential financiers. This shall include identiffing and analyzing the different
fypes of financing (e.g., equiry. debt. PPP) available for implementation of the Project. Tlre
Contractor shall assess potential public and private financing organizations (e.g., the World
Bank, ADB, relevant regional multilateral development banks ("MDBs"), the U.S. ExponImport Bank ("EX[M"), :rnrVor thc U.S. Oversca^s Private Investment Corporation
("OPIC")) as possible sources of implementation financing. In developing thc financing
plan, the Contractor shall take into account a numbcr of relevant factors including timing.
intcrest rates, and potential financing terms. Based on the Contractor's analysis, the
Contractor shall provide thc Grantee a rccommcndation for the most effectivc financing
sources.
To facilitate discussions with Davao City oflicials and prospective financiers, the
Contractor in coordination with the Grantee shall develop a high-level executive summary
that highlights the technical aspects as well as the financial viability of the Project,
including the central command center, and communications, emergency response, and
transportati on management systenN.
Annex I-2

Task 5 Deliverables.' The Contractor's Deliverable for Task 5 ("Task 5 Rcport") shall
incorporate all findings, analyses and recommendations derived from the work performed
under Task 5, include a comprehensive financial analysis of the Project(s), as well as a
financing plan and strategy that would enable the Grantee ro secure implementation
financing. The financing plan shall include a detailed 5-year pro forma financial model (in
Excel format). The Contractor shall also provide a high-level estimate of long-term
investment requirements, based on its l0-year vision developed in Task 2. The Contractor
shall also prepare executive summaries that highlight the technical aspects, as well as rhe
financial viability of the Projcct for the Grantce's usc for fururc discussions with budgeting
authorities and financing institutions.
The Contractor shall submit the Task 5 Report to the Grantec for revicw and comments.
The Grantce shall provide any commcnts within two wceks of rccciving thc Task 5 Report.
The Contractor shall incorporate the Grantee's comments to the extent possible and issue
a ltnal Task 5 Report within one (1) week of receiving the crantee's comments.
Task 6: U.S. Sources of Supolv
The Contractor shall identiff potential U.S. manufacturers, suppliers of equipment and
seruicc providers that are capable of providing goods and serviccs to suppon
implcmcntation of the Project. Ba.sed on the work developed in the previous Tasks, the
Contractor shall prcparc a comprchensive inventory of U.S. manufacturers, suppliers of
equipment and service providers of smart traffic platform technologies, applications and
serviccs to support Project implementation. The list shall include both large corporate U.S.
suppliers with relevant products and at least ten (10) specialist providers and smaller U.S.
hrms with discrete solutions that may be appropriate to Davao City's emergency operations
and smart traflic infrastructure planning. In perfbrming this Task. the Contractor shall
conduct outreach to U.S. industry to provide an overvieu' of the Project with the intent of
promoting U.S. industry engagement. This may be in the form of one-on-one company
briefings or an online webinar to brief U.S. suppliers on potential commercial
opportunities. Based on the discussions, the Contractor shall include a description of
relevant products, solutions and/or scrviccs to be provided by qualified and intcrestcd U.S.
supplicrs. The Contractor shall also produce a document that contains thc contact
information (e.g. business narnc, point of contact, address telephone number, and email
address) for the parties responsible for marketing and sales in thc Philippincs and./or
Southeast Asia.
Task 6 Deliveroble.' The Contractor's deliverable for Task 6 ("Task 6 Report") shall
incorporate all findings, analyses and recommendations derived from the work performed
under Task 6, including but not limited to: (i) an assessment of U.S. suppliers that can
provide components to support implernentation of the Project; (ii) a surnrnary of the
discussions held with prospective U.S. suppliers, including U.S. company observations on
the Project: and (iii; the contact information (e.g. business name. point of'contact. address
telcphonc number, and cmail address) of qualificd and interested U.S. manufacturers,
supplicrs of equipmcnt and scruicc providers. The Contractor shall provi{e thc Grantee
Annex l-2

u'ith a draft Task 6 Report for review and commcnts. Thc Grantcc shall providc comments.
if any, on the draft report within one (l) week of receiving it. The Contractor shall
incorporate the Grantee's comments, to the extent possible, and issue a final Task 6 Report
within one week of receiving the Grantee's comments.
Task 7: Economic and Develonmental Impact Analvsis
In Task 7, thc Contractor shall analyzc thc cconomic and dcvclopmental impacts associatcd
with thc implcmcntatir:n of thc Projcct. This asscssmcnt shall focus on kcy factors such a.s
infrastrucrure, timc savings. pollution rcduction, human capacity building. tcchnology
tran.s l'crlprodu ct i v i ty i mprovemcn t, and markct-ori c-ntcd rcfornr.
In performing this Task, the Contractor shall report on the potential development irnpact
of the Project, including upgrades to the Davao City central command center, including
communications. emergency response and transportation managemext systems. The
Contractor shall fbcus on the economic development outcomes should the proposed
initiatives be irnplernented according to the TA recommendations. The analysis of the
anticipated outcomes shall be as concrete and detailed as possible. The Contractor shall
provide estimates of the potential benefits in the following areas:
The Contractor shall also prepare a high-level estimate of economic benefits associated
with thc implcmcntation of thc Projcct as outlincd in the TA. bascd on intlustry
benchmarks, thcorctical estimates and pnrjccted performancc improvcmcnLs. Thc
economic bcncfits analysis shall take into account factors including bur not bc Iimitcd to:
cconomic gains from improvcd traffic flow: fuel savinss cstimatc: cconomic productivity
improvcmcnt; and othcr factors that demonstratc thc nct cconornic impact on thc Grantec
Colegon,
Indicator
Description
.'lnticipared
Outcame
Infrastructure
Dcvelopment
and Efficienry
Gains
Improved
Mobility
through
Transportation
Infiastructure
Physical improvenrents,
cquipmont additions. or
technology advancements that
improve the flow of traffic and
incrcase cfficicncy over Davao
City roadways.
Y
Promoting
Safety and
Security
Improved
Forecasting or
Emergency
Responsc
Capabilities
lmplementation of
communication and noti fication
systems to improve emergency
rcsponse or firrecasting abilities.
such as waming systems, realtime monitoring aurd prediction
so ftwarc/systents. or bettcr
coordination and managcment of
recovery systems.
Y
as a result ofthe Project.
Anncx I-l

Task 7 Deliverable.' The Contractor's deliverable for Task 7 ("Task 7 Report") shall
incorporate all findings, analyses and recommendations derived from the work performed
under Task 7, including but not limited to a detailed developmental impact assessment that
includes the aforementioned developmental impact categories for the Project. The
Contractor shall also submit a high-level economic impact assessment describing the rnerits
and benefits of thc Project. The Contractor shall submit the Task 7 Report to the Grantee
for review and comments. The Grantee shall provide any comments within rwo (2) weeks
of rcceiving the Task 7 Report. The Contractor shall incolporate the Grantee's comments
to the extent possiblc and issue a fural Task 7 Report within one (l) week of receiving the
Grantee's commenls.
Task E: Final Report and Presentation
The Contractor shall prepare and deliver to the Grantee a substantive and comprehensive
draft final report of all work perfbrmed pursuant to these Terms of Reference ("Draft Final
Report") for review and conrment two (2) weeks prior to a final country visit to the
Philippines. The Contractor shall make a PowerPoint presentation of the Draft Final
Report at the Grantee's office in Davao City, Philippines. The Grantee shall provide
written comments on the draft Final Report to the Contractor within two (2) weeks of the
Contractor's presentation. Based on the Grantee's commenls, the Contractor shall make
the rcvisions requested by the Gnrntee beforc dclivering the Final Report to the Grantee
and USTDA.
Task E Deliverables.' The Contractor shall prepare and deliver to the Grantee and USTDA
a substantive and comprehensive final report of all work performed under these Terms of
Reference ("Final Report";. The Final Report shall be organized according to the above
tasks. shall include an Executive Summary, and shall include all deliverables and
docunrents that have been provided to the Grantee. The Final Report shall be prepared in
accordance with Clause I of Annex II of the Grant AgrermenJ. The Final Report shall be
prepared in English.
Anncx I-2

Annex II
USTDA Mandatory Contract Clauses
A. USTDA Mendatory Clauses Controlling
The parties to this Contract acknowledge that this Contract is funded in whole or in part by
the U.S. Trade and Development Agency ("USTDA") under the Grant Agreement between
the Govemment of the United States of Arnerica acting through USTDA and thc Ciry
Govemment of Davao ("Clicnt"). dated
("Grant Agreement"). Thc Client
has sclccted
("Contractor") to pcrform thc technical assistance ("TA")
to support the modernization or upgrade of thc Davao City Public Safery and Security
Command Centcr and thc devclopment of an Intelligent Transportation Management
System ("Project") in the Philippines ("Host Country"). The Client and the Contractor are
the parties to this Contract, and they hereinafter are referred to collectively as the "Contract
Parties." Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Contract, the fbllowing USTDA
Mandatory Contract Clauses shall govem. All subcontracts entered into by Contractor
funded or partially funded with USTDA Grant funds shall include these USTDA
Mandatory Contract Clauses, except for Clauses B(l), G, H, I. and S. In addition, in the
event of any inconsistency between the Grant Agreement and the Contract or any
subcontract thereundcr, the Grant Agreemcnt shall bc controlling.
B. USTDA as Financier
(l) USTDA Approval of Contract
This Contract, and any amendment thereto, including any amendment to any annex
thereto, and any proposed assignment of this contract, must be approved by usrDA
in writing in order to be effective with respect to the expenditure of USTDA Grant
funds. USTDA will not authorize the disbursement of USTDA Grant funds until the
Contract confbrms to modifications required by USTDA during the Contract review
process and the Contract has been formally approved by USTDA. To make this review
in a timcly fashion, USTDA must rcceivc from either the Client or thc Contractor an
English lamguagc version of a final negotiated draft Contract or a signed Contract to
thc attention of the Gencral Counsel's office at USTDA's adtlress listed in Clause M
below.
(2) USTDA Not a Parrl to the Contract
It is understood by the Contract Parties that USTDA has reserved certain rights such
as. but not limited to, the right to approve the tenns of this Contract and amendments
thereto, including assignments, the selection of all contractors, the Terms of Ref'erence.
the Final Report, and any and all documents related to any contract funded under the
Grant Agreement. The Contract Parties hereto further understand and agree that
USTDA, in rcserving.uly or all of the firrcgoing apprcval rights, ha.s actcd solcly as a
financing entity to assure thc proper usc of United Statcs GovE-rnment funds, and that
Anncx II- I

any dccision by USTDA to cxercise or refrain from cxcrcising these approval rights
shall be made as a financier in the course of financing the TA and shall not be construed
as making USTDA a party to the Contract. The Contract Parties hereto understand and
agree that USTDA may, from time to time, exercise the foregoing approval rights, or
discuss matters related to these rights and the Project with the Contract Parties or the
parties to any subcontract, jointly or separately; and in consideration of USTDA's role
as financier, the Contract Panies further agree that USTDA's rights may be exercised
without thereby incurring any responsibiliry or liability, in contract, tort, or otherwise,
to the Contract Partics or the parties to any subcontract. Any approval or failurc to
approve by USTDA shall not bar the Client or USTDA from asserting any right they
might havc against the Contractor, or relicve the Contractor of any liability which the
Contractor might otherwise havc to the Client or USTDA.
C. Nationality, Source and Origin
Except as USTDA may otherwise agree, the fbllowing provisions shall govern the delivery
of goods and prof'essional sen ices funded by USTDA under the Grant Agreernent:
(a) the Contractor must be a [J.S. firml
(b) the Contractor may use U.S. subcontractors without limitation;
(c) cmployecs of U.S. Contractor or U.S. subcontractor firms shall be U.S. citizens, nonU.S. citizens lawfully admittcd for pcrmanent rcsidcnce in the United Statcs or non-U.S.
citizens lawfully admittcd to work in the United States. cxccpt as providcd pursuant ro
subpart (d) below;
(d) up to fwenty psrcent (20%) of the USTDA Grant amount may be used to pay for
seruices perfonned by (i) Host Country subcontractors, and/or 1ii) Host Country nationals
who are employees of the Contractor;
(e) a Host Country subcontractor may only be used fbr specitic services from the Terms of
Reference identificd in thc subcontract;
(f) subcontractors from countries othcr than the United States or Host Country may not be
used;
(g) goods purchased for performance of the TA and associated delivery services (e.g.,
international transportation and insurance) must have their nationality, source and origin
in the United States: and
(h) goods and seryices incidental to TA supporr (e.g., local lodging, food. and
transportation) in Host Country are not subject to the above restrictions.
USTDA will make available furthcr details concerning these provisions upon request.
Anncx II-2

D. Recordkeeping and Audit
The Contractor and subcontractors funded under the Grant Agreement shall maintain, in
accordance with generally accepted accounting procedures, books, records, and other
docutnents, sufficient to reflect properly all transactions under or in connection with the
Contract. These books, records. and other documents shall clearly idenriff and track the
use and expendinre of USTDA funds, separately from other funding sources. Such books,
records, and documents shall be maintained during the period of performance of work
provided for by this Contract, and for a pcriod of thrcc (3) years after final disbursement
by USTDA. The Contractor and subcontractors shall affilrd USTDA, or its authorizcd
rcprcscntativcs, thc opportunity at reasonablc timcs for inspcction and audit of such books.
rccords. and otlrcr documcntation.
E. U.S. Carriers
(l) Air
Transportation by air of persons or property funded under the Grant Agreement shall
be on U.S. flag carriers in accordance with the Fly America Act,49 U.S.C.40l18, ro
the extent service by such carriers is available, as provided under applicable U.S.
Govenrment rcgulations.
(2) Marine
Transportation by sea of property funded under the Grant Agrccmcnt shall bc on U.S.
carriers in accordance with U.S. cargo preference law.
F. lVorkman's Compensation Insurance
The Contractor shall provide adequate Workman's Compensation Insurance coverage for
work performed under this Contract.
G. Disbursement Procedures
(l) USTDA Approval of Contract
Disburscmcnt of Grant funds will bc madc only aftcrUSDA approval of this Contract.
Annex II-3

(2) Payment Schcdule Rcquiremcnts
A payment schedule for disbursement of Grant funds to the Contractor shall be included
in this Contract. Such payment schedule must conform to the following USTDA
requirements: ( I ) up to twenty percent (20%) of the total USDA Grant amount may
be used as a nrobilization payment; (2) all otherpaynents, with the exception of the
final payment, shall be based upon Contract performance milestones; and (3) the final
payment may be no less than fifteen percent (15%l of the totalUSTDA Grant amount,
payable upon approval by USDA of a Final Report that has been (i) preparcd and
submitted in accordance with the requirement.s set forth in Clause I below, and (ii)
approved in writing by the Client in the manner provided for by Clause G(3xbxiii)
below. Invoicing procedures for all paymenls are described below.
(3) Contractor Invoice Requirements
USTDA willmake all disbursements of USTDA Grant funds directly to the Contractor.
The Contractor must provide USDA with an ACH Vendor Enrollment Form (available
fi'om USTDA) with the first invoice. The Client shall request disbursement of funds by
USTDA to the Contractor for performance of the Contract by submitting the following
to USTDA:
(a) Contractor's Invoice
Thc Contractor's invoicc shall includc rcfcrcncc to an item listed in the Contract
payment schedulc, the rcqucstcd paymcnt amount, and an appropriatc ccrtification
by the Conffactor, as follows:
(i) For a mobilization payment (if any)
"As a condition for this mobilization paynent, the Contractor certifies that it will
perform all work in accordance with the terms of its Contract with the Client. To
the extent that the Contractor does not comply with the terms and conditions of the
Contract, including the USTDA Mandatory Contract Clauscs conainecJ (hcrein, it
will, upon USTDA's rcqucst. makc an appropriate refund to USTDA."
(ii) For Contract performance milcstone payments:
"The Contractor has performed the work described in this invoice in accordance
with the terms of is Contract with the Client and is entitled to payment thereunder.
To the extent the Contractor has not complied with the terms and conditions of the
Contract, including the USTDA Mandatory Contract Clauses contained therein, it
will, upon USTDA's request, make an appropriate refund to USTDA."
(iii) For final payment
Annex II-4

"The Conkactor has performed the work described in this invoice in accordance
with the terms of its Contract with the Client and is entitled to payment thereunder.
Specifically, the Conhactor has submitted the Final Report to the Clisnt, as required
by the Contract, and received the Client's approval of the Final Report. To the
extent the Contractor has not complied with the terms and conditions of the
Contract, including the USTDA Mandatory Contract Clauses contained therein, it
will, upon USTDA's request. make an appropriate refund to USTDA."
(b) Client's Approval of the Contractor's Invoice
(i) The invoice for a mobilization paymcnt must be approved in writing by the
Client.
(ii) For Contract performance milestone payments, the following certification by
the Client must be provided on the invoice or separately:
"The seruices for which disbursement is requested by the Contractor have been
perfbrmed satisfactorily, in accordance with applicable Contract provisions and the
terms and conditions of rhe USTDA Grant Agreement."
(iii) Fur final payment, the following certification by the Client must be providcd
on the invoice or separately:
"Thc scrviccs for which disbursement is requested by thc Contractor havc becn
pcrformed satisfactorily, in accordancc with applicable Contract provisions and the
terms and conditions ofthe USTDA Grant Agreement. The Final Report submitted
by the Contractor has been reviewed and approved by the Client."
(c) USTDA Address for Disbursement Requests
Requests for disbursement shall be submifted to the attention of the Finance
Department at USTDA's address listed in Clause M below, or by e-mail to
invoiccs(@ustda.gov.
H. Termination
(l)
Method of Termination
Either Contract Party may terminate this Contract upon giving written notice to the
other party and USTDA. This notice shall be effective after either 30 days, or any
other period set fbrth elsewhere in this Contract. Furthermore, this Contract shall
tenninate immediately upon notification of USTDA's termination of the Grant
Agleement or the term of availability of any funds thereunder.
Anncx II-5

(21 Ramifications of Termination
In the event that this Contract is terminated prior to completion, the Contractor will
be eligible, subject to USTDA approval, for payment for the value of the work
perlbrmed pursuant to the terms of this Contract. Likewise, in the event of such
termination, USDA is entitled to receive frorn the Contractor all USTDA Grant
funds previously disbursed to the Contractor (including but not limited to
mobilization payments) which exceed the value of the work perfornred pursuant ro
the terms of this Contract.
(3) Survivability
Clauses B, D, G, H, N and S of thc USTDA Mandatory Contract Clauses shall
survive the termination of this Contract.
I. USTDA Final Report
(l) Delinition
"Final Report" shall mean the Final Report described in the attached Annex I Terms of
Rcfcrence or, if no such "Final Report" is described therein, "Final Report" shall mean
a substantive and comprehensive report of work performed in accordancc with the
attachcd Annex I Tcrm.s of Reference. including any documcn[s delivcrcd to the Client.
The Contractor shall provide the lollowing to USTDA:
(a) One ( l) CD-ROM containing a complete electronic copy of the Final Report
fbr USTDA's records. This version shall have been approved by the Client in
writing and must be in the English language. It is the responsibiliry of the
Contractor to ensure that confidential information, if any, contained in this
vcrsion be clearly marked. USTDA will maintain the confidentialiry of such
information in accordance with applicable law. Thc clectronic files on the CDROM shall be submitted in a commonly accessible read-only format, and the CDROM shall be clcarly labeled in accordance with thc requiremenls of USTDA
Final Report - Final Report Prcsentation.
and
(b) One (l) CD-ROM containing an electronic copy of the FinalReport suitable
tbr public distribution ("Public Version"). The Public Version shall have been
approved by the Client in writing and must be in the English language. As this
version will be available fbr public distribution, it must not contain any
confidential information. It is the responsibility of thc Contractor to ensure that no
confidential information is containcd on the CD-ROM. If the report in (a) above
Anncx II-6
(2) Final Report Submission Requircments

contains no confidcntial information. it may bc used as the Public Version. In any
event, the Public Version must be informative and contain sufficient Project detail
to be useful to prospective U.S. equipment and service providers. The elecronic
files on the CD-ROM shall be submined in a commonly accessible read-only
fbnnat, and the CD-ROM shall be clearly labeled in accordance with the
requiranents of USTDA Final Report - Final Rcport Presentation.
(3) Final Report Presentation
All Final Reports submitted to USTDA must be paginated and includc thc following:
(a) The front covcr of cvcry Final Rcport shall contain thc namc of thc Clicnt, thc
name of the Contractor who prepared thc rcport. a rcport title. USTDA's logo. and
USTDA's address. If the cornplete version of the Final Report contains confidential
information, the Contractor shall be responsible for labeling the front cover of that
version of the Final Report with the term "Contidential Version". The Contractor
shall be responsible for labeling the front cover of the Public Version of the Final
Report with the term "Public Version". ThE front cover of every Final Report shall
also conhin the following disclaimer:
"This rcport wa-s funded by thc U.S. Tradc and Development Agcncy
(USTDA), iur agency of thc U.S. Govcmmcnt. Thc opinions, findings,
conclusions or rccommcndations expressed in this document arc those of the
author(s) and do not ncccssarily rcprescnt thc official position or policics of
USTDA. USTDA makcs no rcprcscntation about, nor docs it acccpt
responsibility for, the accuracy or completeness of the information contained in
this report."
(b) The inside fiont cover of every Final Report shall contain USTDA's logo.
USTDA's address, and USTDA's mission statement. Carnera-ready copy of
USTDA Final Report specifications will be available from USTDA upon request.
(c) Thc Contractor shall affix to thc front of thc CD-IIOM containing the Public
vcrsion of thc Final Rcport a labcl identiffing rhe Hosr Counuy, USTDA Activity
Numbcr, the name of thc Clicnt, thc namc of thc Contractor who prcpared thc
rcpon. a rcport titlc, and thc following languagc:
"The Contractor certifies that this cD-RoM contains the Public Version of the
Final Report and that all contents are sui[able for public distribution."
If there is a confidential or non-public version of the Final Report. the Contractor
shall affrx to the front of the CD-ROM containing the confidential Final Report a
label identiffing the Host Country, USTDA Activity Number, rhe name of the
Client. the name of the Contractor who prepared the report. a repofi title, and the
tcrm "Confi dcntial Version",
Anncx Il-7

(d) The Contractor and any subcontractors that perform work pursuant to the Grant
Agreement must be clearly identified in the Final Report. Business narne, point of
contact, address, telephone and fax numbers, and e-mail address shall be included
for Contractor and each subcontractor.
(e) The Final Report, while aiming at optimum specifications and characteristics
for the Project, shall identiff the availability of prospective U.S. sources of supply.
Business name, point of contact. address, telephone and fax numbers. and e-mail
addrcss shall be included for each commcrcial source.
(f) The Final Rcport shall bc accompanied by a letter or other notation by the Client
which states that the Client approves the Final Report. A certification by the Client
to this effcct provided on or with the invoice for final payment will meet this
requirement.
(g) The Client, USTDA, and the Commercial and/or Economic SECTION(s) of
the U.S. Embassy in llost Country shall have irrevocable, worldwide, royaltyfree, non{xclusive rights to use and distribute the Final Report.
J. Modifications
All changes, modifications, assignments or amendments to this Contract, including the
appendices, shall be made only by writtcn agreement by the Contract Parties hercto, subject
to written USTDA approval.
K. TA Schedule
(l) TA Completion Date
The completion date for the TA, which is March 31,2021. is the date by which the
Contract Parties estimate that the TA will have been completed.
(2) Time Limitation on Disbursement of USTDA Grant Funds
Except a.s USTDA may otherwise agrec, (a) no USTDA funds may be disbursed under
this Contract for goods and seruices which are provided prior to the Effectivc Datc of
the Grant Agreement; and (b) no USTDA funds may be disbursed more tlran four (4)
years after the Effective Date of the Grant Agreement.
L. Business Practices
The Contract Parties recognize the existence of standards of conduct for public officials
and commercial entities in their respective countries. Therefore, the Contract Parties shall
fully comply with all United States and Host Country laws relating to comrption orbribery.
For cxample. the Contractor aurd ils subcontractors shall fully comply with the requiremenls
Annex II-8

of thc Forcign Comrpt Practiccs Act. as amendcd (15 U.S.c. $$ 78dd-l ct scq.). Each
Contract Party agrees that it shall require that any agent or representative hired ro represent
it in connection with the TA will comply with this paragraph and all laws which apply ro
activities and obligations of that Contract Party, including, but not limited to, those laws
and obligations referenced above.
M. USTDA Address and Fiscal Data
Any commurrication with USTDA rcgarding tlris Contract shall bc scnt to thc filllowing
addrcss and includc thc fiscal data listed bclow:
U.S. Tradc and Dcvelopmcnt Agency
ll0l Wilson Boulcvard. Suitc I100
Arlington, Virginia 2220q-227 5
USA
Phone:
l'ax:
E-Mail:
Fiscal Data:
Appropriation No.
Activiry No.:
Rcscrvation No.:
Grant No.:
(703) 875-4357
t703) 997-2392
IndoPacific@ustda.gov
I I l9l20 l00t
201 9-3 r 0l 7A
20t91 I I
ll3lPLt9GH3lllt
N. Taxes
USTDA funds provided under the Grant Agreernent shall not be used to pay any taxes,
tarifi's. duties, f'ees or other levres imposed under laws in elTect in Host Counqy, except lbr
taxes of a de minimis nature imposed on local lodging, food. transportation, or airport
arrivals or departures. Neither the Client nor the Contractor will seek reimbursement from
USTDA for taxes, tariffs, dutics, fccs or othcr lcvics, cxcept for taxes of a de minimis
nafurc refcrenccd above.
O. Export Licensing
The Contractor and all subcontractors are responsible for compliance with U.S. export
licensing requirements, if applicable, in the performance of the Terms of Reference.
P. Contact Persons
The Client designates the following person as the contact person for matters concerning
this Contract:
Namc: Tristan Dwight P. Domingo
Anncx Il-9

Title: Assistant City Administrator
Phone: (6382) 241 1000 loc.2l4
E-Mail : dwight.domingo(@.davaociry.gov.ph / cado.adm@davaocity. gov.ph
Tlre Contractor designates the following person as the contact person for matters
concerning this Contract:
Name:
Title:
Phone:
Far:
E-Mail
Ifanyone designated by a Contract Party as a contact person ceases senice as a contact
person at any point during the ten-year period following the date of signing of this Conrract,
the Contract Party that had designated that contact person shall provide USTDA and the
other Conffact Party u'ith the name and contact information of a replacement contact
person.
Q. Liahilit-v
This Contract may includc a clausc that limits thc liabiliry of thc Contract Partics. provided
that such a clause docs not (i) disclaim liability for damagcs that are nanrml, probablc. and
rcasonably foreseeablc as a rcsult of a brcach of this Contract, or (ii) limit the total amount
of damages rccovcrablc to an amount lcss than thc total amount disbursed to the Contractor
pursuant to this Contract. lf any clause included by the Contract Parties is inconsistent
rvith either or both of these limitations, it shall be invalid and unenforceable to the extent
of the inconsistency.
R. Arbitration
If the Contract Parties submit any dispute arising under this Contracr for arbitration. the
scopc of ury such arbitration shall bc limited to thc Contract Partics' rights anrVor
obligations under this Contract and may not extend to any right or obligation if USmn.
Thc arbitrator(s) shall not arbitrate issues directly affecting thc rightJor obligations of
USTDA.
S. Reporting Requirements
The Contractor shall advise USTDA hy lefter as to the status of the Project on March I st
annually for a period of two (2) years after completion of'the TA. fn iddition, if at any
tirne the Contractor receives fbllow-on work lion: the Client, the Contractor shall so notify
USTDA and designate the Conffactor's contact point including name. telephone, fax
number. and e-mail address. Since this information may be made pubticly availabte by
USTDA, any information which is confidential shall bc dcsignited a^s such by the
l,,-^/
I
Anncx II- 10

Contractor and provided separatcly to USTDA. USTDA will maintain thc confidcntiality
of such information in accordance with applicable law.
Annex II-l I

(
I
v
ACKNOWLEDGEI\t ENT
Republic of the Philippines )
City ofDavaoCir,- .. )S S
BEFORE ME, personally appeared, SARA Z DUTERTE, Ciry Mayor of Davao,
exhibiting to me her valid identification document: Driver's License No. L02-95-108422, known
to me and to me known to be the same person who executed the foregoing nine (9) pages Grant
Agreement with twenty-five (25) pages annexes, and acknowledged to me that the same is her free
and voluntary act and deed.
WITNESS MY HAND AND SEAL. on
Philippines.
20r9
at Davao City,
city
2019
, 0avao Crty
DC (fo 2019)
po. uo. 08 ;
E::iX,:fo:
SERIES of20l91
PTT
l8P
5-18 DC (for 20 t9)
No. 55014
MCLE Cor4ftHNCE N0. vt.00l39lr ,oglzglzot|
tlotrr, Pubric
Untll DecemDef l
Legat 0flrce, Ciry
I 152103 . 0t
Senal
lr