r,":($i NG"i
,llt;^tloft.4i
5ilffi
i
OFFICE OF THE CITY IVIAYOR
r
}J
(
Ref. No, CA&2O19{4709
'.-tt
*
2Nd IilDORSEMEilT
December 16,2ALg
Respectfully returned to Ms. Charito N. Santos, Secretary to the SANGGUNIANG
Panlungsod, this City, the within Legal Opinion No, 732, SERIES of 2019 dated
November 29,20t9 of the City Legal Office, relative to the attached duly signed and
approved Ordinance No. 042-19, SERIES of 2019 entitled, "AN ORDINANCE FURTHER
AMENDING THE "DAVAO CTTY INVESTMENT INCENTNVE CODE OF 1994, AS
AMENDED", OTHERWISE KNOWN AS THE "2019 DAVAO CITY INVESTMENT
INCENTIVE CODE", for your information and appropriate action.
For the City Mayor:
ATTY. TRISTAT{
Assistant
(Administration)
T
NL-0q-p
6Y:
IlltEr
C]rY MAYOR's OFFICE
coiREsroltoENc€ AND RECOf,,D5 DrV
RELEASED
oEc 1 8 2019
.rrr('co*o
ADMINISTRAIIVE AIDI IV
LIFE IS HERE
Second Floor, City Hall Building, City Hall Drive, San Pedro St., Davao City
(082) 224-3004 o (082) 241-1000 loc.265 o davaocitymayor@gmail.com
B,eW @

/r.t ll-w
*'o'o';;:?;j*'j"'".'
OFFIGE OF THE GITY LEGA
Tel no. 227-5793 * 225-0183
Trunk Line No. 24L-1000 Loc. 2r
-o0oRef. No. CLO-2019-0004343
Approved by:
ATTY. OSMUN
OIC, Acting City Legal Officer
Date approved:
LEGAL OPINION No.
SERIES OF 2019
an
1ST INDORSEMENT
November 29,20L9
Respectfully forwarded to the OFFICE OF THE CITY MAYO& through the Office
of the Assistant City Administrator for Administration, both this City, the attached
Resolution No. 0134-19 and Ordinance No. 042-19, both SERIES of 2019, entitled "AN
ORDINANCE FURTHER AMENDING THE *DAVAO CITY INVESTMENT INCENTIVE CODE
OF 1994, AS AMENDED", OTHERWISE KNOWN AS THE "2019 DAVAO CITY INVESTMENT
INCENTIVE CODE", informing your end that this Office finds the provisions of the
ordinance free from any legal infirmity.
In view of the foregoing, this Office recommends for enactment of the proposed
ordinance according to the procedure prescribed il
LIAS
P. VILLANUEVA, JR.
A
Y
It
\
ElFFEt 0F Tii6 ;,r
6l*'.r ,.,.
:*r,
rc4set*,aY:*
.'r,HY:*_-.:--[{
+;;Sfi3ft*n$rl
Arn
t/ L,-
bt+2019 fu"bA
61{q*--
F
c
'n6
ADMIN
cMo coftrAcl
2.
a:
-l
r0c.
(A)t)
265-256, 09956299702
NEC 03
{tb-irA.r
At
MARY ANN

I
2019
SARA Z. DUTERTE
City Mayor
Madam:
\
\\. l'
t'
t,/.1 4
W-?0n o1yt+.rqb ?. W
pursuant to Sub-SECTION 3, Paragraph C, SECTION 469, Afticle One, Title Five,
Chapter 3, Book III and SECTION 54 of Book I Republic Act No. 7L60, otherwise known
as the Local Government Code of 1991, we are furnishing you a copy of Resolution No.
0134-1,9 and Ordinance No. W.,
both SERIES of 2019 of the SANGGUNIANG
Panlungsod, for your information, guidance and appropriate action.
Very truly yours,
d,Mitsffi*
Secretary to the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod
(City Government Department Head II)
CORRESPOT{DENCE & RECORD-( DIVISION
RECEIVED
Nov 26 2019
,o* o*,|o. AI,ARAD' o
Aril4lNlsl riATlVt AIUE lV
I
CMO CONTA|T 8: ;r41-i00(i LOL.
ioF;l;
rr" .,\ir:
''\#j'

R@g[lio of the Philippines
' City of Davao
Office of the Sangluniing Panlungsod
19th City Council
12th Regular Session
SERIES of 2019
PRESENT:
Vice Mayor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
ABSENT:
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Maria Belen S. Acosta
Edgar P. Ibuyan Jr.
Jaffar U. Marohomsalic
- On Vacation Leave
- On Official Business
- On Sick Leave
Sebastian Z. Duterte
- Presiding Officer
Ralph O. Abella
Nilo D. Abellera
Bai Hundra Cassandra Dominique N. Advincula
Wilberto E. Al-ag
Dante L. Apostol Sr.
Conrado C. Baluran
Jessica M. Bonguyan
Louie John J. Bonguyan
Pilar C. Braga
Augusto Javier G. Campos III
Danilo C. Dayanghirang
Jonard C. Dayap
Edgar R. Ibuyan Sr.
Richlyn N. Justol-Baguilod
Pamela A. Librado-Morata
Diosdado Angelo Junior R. Mahipus
Bonifacio E. Militar
Myrna G. L' Dalodo-Ortiz
Antoinette G. Principe-Castrodes
J. Melchor B. Quitain Jr.
Alberto T. Ungab
Mary Joselle D. Villafuerte
Jesus Joseph P. Zozobrado III
ORDINANCE NO. 042-19
SERIES of 2019
AN ORDINANCE FURTHER AMEilDING THE "DAVAO CITY
TNVESTMENT INCENTTVE CODE OF 1994, AS AMENDEDi
OTHERWISE KNOWN AS THE *2019 DAVAO CITY INVESTMENT
INCENTIVE CODE"

Ord. No. 042-L9
Be it ordained by the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod of Davao City, in session assembled
that:
SECTION 1. EtE - This Ordinance shall be known as "AN ORDINANCE
FURTHER AMENDING THE *DAVAO CITY INVESTMENT INCENTIVE CODE OF 1994,
AS AMENDED" OTHERWISE KNOWN AS THE *2019 DAVAO CITY TNVESTMENT
INCENTIVE CODE"
SECTION 2. EgyEBAgE - The proposed amendments refer to ceftain provisions of
the Davao City Investment Incentive Code.
SECTION 3. NENTEN[E -The proposed amendments are as follows:
CHAPTER. I. TITLE AND DECTARATION OF POLICY
SECTION 1. TITLE - This Ordinance shall be known and cited as an "AN
ORDINANCE FURTHER AMENDING THE DAVAO CITY II{VESTMENT INCENTIVE
coDE".
SECTION 2.
- To accelerate the sound
development of Davao City in accordance with the City Comprehensive Development Plan
and the Philippine Development Plan, it is hereby declared to be the policy of the City of
Davao to establish a favorable and stable business climate consistent with the development
needs of the City, which will encourage new investments or expansion/diversification in THE
IDENTIFIED PRIORITY INVESTMENT AREAS that will provide employment
opportunities, raise the standard of living of the people of Davao City, and provide for the
equitable distribution of wealth.
The City of Davao welcomes and encourages domestic and foreign capital to establish
enterprises that would utilize substantial amount of labor, raw materials and natural
resources of the City.
It is further declared to be the policy of the City to promote the establishment and
operation of non-government organizations to serve as active paftners in achieving local
autonomy.
SECTION 3. DECI-ARATION OF PURPOSE - It is the obiective of this Code to:
1. Harmonize, as approoriate. the City's Investment Code with the national
government initiatives/laws/regulations on investment related activities:
2. Rationalize the fiscal and non-fiscal incentives to new, expanding and diversiffing
enterprises;
3. Promote. encourage and accelerate inflow of investments to the CiW.
sEcTIoN4._ThisordinanceshallapplytoallpersonS,
juridical and natural entities or enterprises, non-government organizations and
instrumentalities to the extent provided in this Code.

Ord. No. 042-t9
CHAPTER II. DEFINITION OF TERMS
SECTION 5. DEFIilmOil OF TERMS - For purposes of this Ordinance, the
following terms shall be construed to mean:
a. Board - shall refer to the Davao City Investment Incentive Board (DCIIB) created
under the Code.
b. Center - shall mean the Davao City Investment Promotion Center, or in shoft,
DCIPC, which is the office that will serue as the technical secretariat of the Board
and its lead executing arm to implement the provisions of this Code.
c. City - shall refer to the City of Davao.
d. Code - shall refer to the Davao City Investment Incentive Code of 1994
promulgated pursuant to SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod Resolution No. 6652-94 and
Ordinance No. 2017-94, dated 13 May 1994, and approved by Mayor Rodrigo R.
Dutefte on June 15, 1994 and the subsequent amendments thereto.
e. Existing Establishments / Enterprises - refer to private business enterprises whose
place of operation or production is presently located within the territorial
jurisdiction of Davao City.
f. Existinq Project - shall refer to a pCIect of an existing enterprise that has stafted
commercial operation at the time of application with the Board.
g. Expansion Proiect - shall refer to a p0ect of an existing enterprise that would
involve the installation of additional facilities/equipment that will result in the
increase in caoacity of the same/similar activity within the same existing
planVfacilities of the enterorise, subject to such guidelines as the Board mav adoot.
h. Fiscal Incentives- shall refer to tax incentives and other monetary incentives that
may be granted by the City under this Code.
i. Indioenous Peoples - referto a group of people or homooenous societies as defined
under Republic Act No. 8371, otherwise known as "The Indigenous Peoples'Rights
Act of 1997". Indigenous Peoples in Davao City shall include, but not limited to,
Klata Tribe. Ata, Ovu-Manuvo, Matigsalog Tribe. Tagabawa, Kagan,
Maguindanaon, Maranao. Sama, Tausug, and Iranun.
j. Local Personnel/Worker - refers to those workers or personnel who are residents
of Davao City for at least six (6) months wherein proof of residency is the
presentation of a Barangay Clearance and/or the Community Tax Ceftificate from
k. Modernization or Rehabilitation - shall herein refer to any replacement or
installation of machinery or the alteration of production processes, methods or
techniques through the use of technological advances resulting in substantial
improvement in efficiency and/or quality, with or without any change in the rated
capacity, subject to such guidelines as the Board mav adoot.
l. Micro-Small. Medium Enterprise or MSME - refers to any business activity or
enterprise as defined under Republic Act No. 9501, otherwise known as the "Maona
Carta for Micro, Small, Medium Enterprises (MSMES), including any subseouent
amendment thereto".

v
\f
.
page 4 of Z0
Ord. No. A42-L9
m. New Investors/Enterprises - shall refer to private enterprises who at the time of
apolication, have no existino business establishments or ventures in the city and
intend to venture into new projec{s and/or want to establish ttreir ptaces of
operation or production within the territorialjurisdiction of Davao City.
n. New projects - refer to activities covered under the Priority Investment Areas
involving the establishment of new production/service facilities by existing or new
enterprises. subjeA to such ouide
o. Non-fisca! incentives - shall refer to the non-tax and non-monetary privileges. such
as Fremium seruices or assistance, that mav be given bv the citv to ceftain
enterprises under this Code.
p. Persons with Disability (PWD) - are those suffering from the restriction of different
abilities. as defined in Reoublic Act No. 7277 otherwise known as the "Magna Cafti
For Disabled Persons. as amended by Republic Act No. 10754,,.
q. Priority Investment Areas - refer to the economic activities cited under SECTION 17
of the Davao Investment Incentive Code of 1994 and those areas, which the Board
may determine from time to time and subsequently recommend for approvat by
the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod.
r. Private enterprises - shall refer to private corporations, paftnerships, single
proprietorsh i p, cooperatives a nd non -governmental orga n izations.
s. Project cost - shall mean the total cost of setting up a project, which includes, but
not limited to, land, building, office equipment furniture and working capital.
t. Project Study - refers to a Project Profile of the applicant, which presents, among
others, highlights of the financial and socio-economic impact of the project.
u. Public-Private Paftnership (PPP) - contractual arrangement between government
and private sector to deliver public infrastructure and/or public services. The
modalities of which are duly approved and specified under Republic Act No. 77L8,
othenruise known as the "Revised Philippine BOT Law".
v. Public-Private Partnership (PPP) Projects - infrastructure or development pCIects
normally financed and operated by the public sector but which will now be wholly
or partly financed and operated by the private sector including, but not limited to,
power plants, highways, potu, airports, canals, dams, hydropower projects, water
supply, industrial estates or townships, housing, government buildings, tourism
projects, public markets, slaughterhouses, warehouses, solid waste management,
information technology networks and database infrastructure, education and
health facilities, sewerage, drainage, dredging and other infrastructure and
development projects, as authorized by the City Government of Davao with
reference to the Davao City Public-Private Paftnership (PPP) Ordinance.
w. Registered Enterprise - refers to those enterprises/businesses who are granted
incentives by the DCIIB.
x. Social Enterprise (SE) - shall refer to a social mission-driven organization that
conducts economic activities providino goods and services directly related to its
primary mission of improving the well-being of the poor, basic and maroinalized
sectors, and their living environment.

Ord. No. 042-L9
y. Start of Commercial Operation (SCO) - refers to the date specified in the pCIect
studv submitted to the Board (projected SCO), or the date when a particular
enterprise actually begins production of the registered product for commercial
purposes or when a particular enterorise begins catering to or servicing its clients
(actual SCO), as the case may be, whichever comes first.
z. Violation - shall be defined as the registered enterprise's failure to complv with the
conditions of its reoistration including. but not limited to, failure to submit one or
more reporVs or documenVs required in a particular scheduled repofting period as
prescribed in SECTION 41 hereof.
CHAPTER III. THE DAVAO CITY INVESTMENT INCENTIVE BOARD
SECTION 6. THE DAVAO CITY INVESTMENT INCENTIVE BOARD - TheTe is
hereby created a Davao City Investment Incentive Board (DCIIB) to implement the provisions
of this Code.
SECTION 7.
- The Board shall be composed of
the following:
Chairperson
Vice Chairperson
City Mayor
City Vice-Mayor
Members:
. Chairperson, SP Committee on Trade, Commerce and Industry
. Chairoerson, SP Committee on Agriculture
. Chairoerson, SP Committee on Tourism and Beautification
o Chairperson. SP Committee on Environment and Natural Resources
. Chairperson, SP Committee on Finance, Ways and Means & Appropriations
. Chairperson, SP Committee on Housing, Rural & Urban Development
. City Administrator
. CiW Legal Officer
. City Planning and Development Coordinator
. City Director, Department of Trade and Industry, Region XI
. President, Davao City Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Inc. (DCCCII)
o Private Sector Co-Chairperson, Davao City Tourism Council
. Chairperson, Philippine Exporters Confederation (PHILEPORT), Region XI
. Chairperson, Davao Cooperative Development Council
. Two (2) Private Sector Representatives to be appointed by the City Mayor
for a term of two (2) years.
The membership of the Board may be increased or decreased by the SANGGUNIANG
Panlungsod through the recommendation of the Board, as it deems necessary, for the
effective implementation of the provisions of this Code.
SECTION 8. APPOINTMENT AND REMOVAL OF REPRESENTATIVES . At thc
beginning of every year, members of the Board may recommend the appointment of their
auihorized representative by submitting to the Chairperson a duly notarized document
designating therein the name of said representative. The authorized representatives shall be
entitled to all rights and privileges due to a regular member of the Board.
I

Ord. No. 042-19
INDUSTRY; FINANCE, WAYS AND MEANS AND APPROPRIATIONS; HOUSING, RURAL &
URBAN DEVELOPMENT; AGRICULTURE, TOURISM AND BEAUTIFICATION AND
ENVIRONMENT AND NATURAL RESOURCES SHALL BE THE DEFAULT AUTHORIZED
ANY MEMBER OF THE BOARD MAY REMOVE OR REPI.ACE THE AUTHORIZED
REPRESENTATIVE ON THE GROUNDS OF ABSENTEEISM, UNETHICAL BEHAVIOR,
NEGUGENCE, AND/OR LOSS OF TRUST. THE MEMBER OF THE BOARD SHALL NOTIFY THE
CHAIRPERSON OF TIIE BOARD OF SUCH REMOVAL OR REPI.ACEMENT OF THE DESIGNATED
REPRESENTATIVE.
IN THE PRECEDING SECTION, THE CHANGE IN VICE.CHAIRMANSHIP SHALL BE REPORTED
BY THE CHAIRPERSON OF THE COMMITTEES TO THE BOARD CHAIRPERSON.
SECTION 9. MEETINGS AND OUORUM OF THE BOARD - The Board shAII Meet
at least once every quafter or as often as may be necessary, on such day as it may fix.
A ouorum is required before a board meeting can be held. The presence of at least a
majority of its members shall constitute a quorum. and a majority of the quorum shall be
required for the Board to exercise its powers and perform its functions.
A Soecial Meetino mav be called upon the request of the Chairman or by the maiority
of the members of the Board. A Written Notice of meeting, settino fofth the agenda for the
Special Meeting, must be circulated to the members of the Board at least one day before the
holding of the Special Meetino.
SECTION 10. MANNER OF VOTING - In all meetings, regular members of the
Board or, in their absence, their duly appointed representatives, are allowed to vote.
SECTION 11.
- The Board shall be
vested with the following powers and functions:
Prepare the PRIONTY INVESTMENTAREAS which shall contain a listing of specific
activities that can oualiff for incentives under this Code, duly supported by the
studies of existing and orospective demands for such oroducts and seruices in the
light of the level and structure of income. production, trade. prices and relevant
economic and technical factors in the ciW:
b. To review and approve qualified applications for the granting of fiscal and nonfiscal incentives in accordance with the policies and guidelines provided for in this
Code, imposing such terms and conditions as it may deem necessaru to promote
the objectives of this Code including refund of incentives when appropriate and
restricting availment of ceftain incentives;
c. To commission an independent study group to conduct an economic and technical
research for the purpose of identiffing priority investment areas and/or activities
to be promoted as well as appropriate incentives and suppoft measures which
should be extended to attract investors into these areas and/or activiUes;
d. To adopt a shoft and medium-term investment promotion program which shall
speciff the list of priority investment areas and activities and corresponding
incentives and support measures to be used to attract targeted investors as may
be recommended by the Technical Secretariat;
a

Ord. No. 042-tg
e. To propose and recommend the necessary appropriations to the SANGGUNIANG
Panlungsod or secure additional funding from other sources in order to support the
operations of DCIPC;
f. To enlist the assistance of national agencies and private sector organizations, as
may be necessary, useful and incidental for the effective and efficient
implementation of this Code;
g. To establish trade and investment liaison offices in places as may be necessary to
promote the City's business climate;
h. To conduct consultations with relevant private and government stakeholders on
the review of the provisions of this Code;
i. To recommend to the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod the suspension of accepting
applications for local incentives as recommended by the Technical Secretariat.
j. Upon the recommendation of DCIPC. to recommend to the City Mayor adoption
and/or chanqes to the PrioriW Invesffnent Areas of the CiW;
k. Upon the recommendation of DCIPC, the Board shall identiff and recommend for
the approval of the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod, the appropriate Incentive measures
to promote priority investment areas and activities, to targeted investors;
l. To recommend to the City Mavor, the foroino of agreements with other
government offices,international organizations and foreion oovernment entities for
the effective implementation of this Code;
m. To authorize the periodic checking and verification. by inspecting the books and
nremiqeq nf the
antarnrico nr hv rpnuirinn
rannrtc tha
registered enterorises'compliance with this Code. its Imolementino Rules and
Reoulations (IRR). and terms and conditions of registration;
n. After due notice and hearing, to cancel the registration or suspend the enjovment
of incentives of any registered enterprise and/or require refund of the incentives
enjoyed by such enterprise, including penalties and interests, for failure to maintain
the qualifications required under this Code. its Implementing Rules and Regulations
(IRR), or terms and conditions of registration;
s. To promuloate the necessary Implementing Rules and Regulations and other
issuances for the effective implementation of this Code:
p. After notice and due hearing, decide controversies, interpret concerning the
implementation of this Code;
q. To submit an annual repoft to the SANGGUNIANG Panolunsod covering the following:
1\ The amount of tax incentives availed by registered business entities; 2) The
estimate claims of tax incentives immediately precedino the current year; 3) The
proorammed tax incentives for the current vear: and 4) The proiected tax
incentives for the following year: and
r. To perform such other powers and functions as are necessary and incidental to the
exercise and performance of its functions.
r{

Ord. No. 042-t9
SECTION L2. POWERS AND FUNCTIONS OF THE CHAIRPERSON - The
Chairperson of the Board shall have the following powers and duties:
a. To preside over the regular and special meetings of the Board;
b. To recommend to the Board such policies and measures he/she may deem
necessary to carry out the objectives of this Code;
c. To render annual reports to the SANGGUNIANG Panglunsod; and
d. Generally, to exercise such other powers and perform such other duties as may be
authorized by the Board, from time to time.
SECTION 13. POWERS AND FUNCTIONS OF THE VICE-CHAIRPERSON . The
Vice-Chairperson of the Board shall have the following powers and duties:
a. To preside over the regular and special meetings of the Board in the absence of
the Chairperson;
b. To perform other duties of the Chairperson in the absence of the Iatter; and
c. To perform such other duties as may be assigned to him/her by the Board.
CHAPTER IV. THE DAVAO CITY INVESTMENT PROMOTION CENTER
SECTION L4. DAVAO CITY INVESTMENT PROMOTIOI{ CENTER fiHE
CENTER) - There shall be created an office known as the Davao City Investment Promotion
Center, which shall be staffed by one (1) Economist IV, three (3) Economist III, one (1)
Economist II, one (1) Economist I and one (1) Economic Researcher.
Additiona! Technical Staff may be hired by the Center upon recommendation of the
Board, subject to the approval of the City Mayor.
The Center shall be attached as a regular division of the Office of the City Mayor.
SECTION 15.A. POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE CENTER - The Center sha|I act
as the Technica! Secretariat of the Board, shall implement its policies and guidelines and
shall specifically perform the following duties:
a. Accept, process and evaluate applications for registration for availment of local
incentives and submit recommendations for action by the Board;
b. Provide the necessary suppoft seruices to investorc as guaranteed under the Code;
c. Work with other offices and agencies, whenever appropriate and necessary, in order
to execute its mandate under the Code;
d. Collate, analyze and compile pertinent data and information and conduct studies and
stakeholder consultations concerning areas that have been or may be declared as
"Preferred/Priority Areas of Investments" by the Board;
e. To review the list of Preferred Invesffnent Areas of the city and recommend to the
Board chanoes thereto;
I

Ord. No. 042-L9
f. Recommend to the Board any modification/amendment to existing legislation and
procedures on local investments;
g. Prepare agenda for meetings of the Board and submit for the latter's consideration
and approval the policies and measures which are deemed necessary to carry out
the provisions of this Code;
h. Render and submit annuaUspecial repofts to the Board or to the City Government of
Davao about its activities relative to the implementation of the Code within sixty (60)
days after the close of each calendar year or as may be requested;
i. To submit an annual report to the Board coverino the following: 1) the amount of
tax incentives availed by registered business entities; 2) the estimate claims of tax
incentives immediately preceding the current year; 3) the proorammed tax incentives
for the current year; and 4) the projected tax incentives for the following vear;
j. Handle oromotiona! activities that will directly influence infusion of investments and
influx of trade;
k. Review and update, as often as necessary (at least once everv two (2) years), the
package of appropriate incentives and support measures and the investment areas
or activities, and after consultation with the affected sectors, recommend to the
Board to remove an area or activity from the list, at any point, when it deems that
sufficient investments in the area or activities have been attained and where
continued extension of incentives or suppoft measures for the expansion of said
areas or activities may place the interest of the City and the public in a
disadvantageous position. Likewise, the Center may also recommend to the Board to
remove an investment area or activity from the list where such area or activity in the
City cannot attract investors within reasonable time and cost or may result in
unfavorable business climate, subject to the approval of the Sangunniang
Panlungsod; and
l. Perform such other functions that are necessary and incidental for the effective
implementation of this Code.
SECTION 15.B. TECHNICAT FUNCTIONS OF THE CENTER - The Center shaI|
also perform technica! functions to be enumerated in the Implementing Rules and
Regulations (IRR).
SECTION 16. REPORTING - The Head of the Davao City Investment Promotion
Center (DCIPC) shall report to the Board matters affecting plans, programs and pefformance
of the Center.
CHAPTER V. LIST OF PRTORITY TNVESTMENT AREAS (PIA)
SECTION 17. LIST OF PRIORITY INVESTMENT AREAS (PIA) - Incentives will
be provided to new, expansion and diversification p$ects in the following investment areas:
1.) Agri-business
2.) Tourism
3.) Light manufacturinq
4.) Propefi development
5.) Health
6.) Education

Ord. No. 042-19
7.) Technology
8.) Eco-industry
9.) Infrastructure; and
10.) Inclusive business activities
The investment areas herein provided, being general priority investment areas in
Davao City, may be expanded by the DCIIB as may be warranted by the City's business
atmosphere.
SECTION 18. CRITERIA IN DETERMINING SPECIFIC AREAS OR ACTIVITIES
FOR INCLUSION IN THE LIST OF PIA - No economic actlviW shall be included in the PIA
unless it is shown to be economically, technically and financially sound after thorouoh
investigation and analysis bv DCIPC.
The determination of the areas or activities to be listed in the list of PIA shall be based
on long-run comparative advantaoe. taking into account the value of social objectives and
employing economic criteria along with market, technical, and financial analyses.
In determinino the areas and activities to be included in the list of PIA, the followino
shall be considered, among others:
(a) It must generate high levels of employment;
(b) It must feature a high degree of value-added;
(c) It must create linkages with local industries; and
(d) It must not have deleterious effect on the environment
SECTION 19. APPROVAL OF THE LIST OF PRIORITY INVESTMENT AREAS
(LIST OF PIA) BY THE BOARD - The list of PIA oreoared by DCIPC shall be reviewed by
the Board and shall be approved by a maiority vote of all the members of the Board in a
meeting dulv called for the puroose.
SECTION 20. REMOVAT/DELETION OF A PRIORITY INVESTMENT AREA -
Upon the recommendation of the Center, the Board may, through a resolution, remove an
area or activity from the list of preferred/priority areas for investments subject to the approval
of the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod. Basis for the removal of the Preferred Investment Area are
as follows:
1. Sufficient investments in the area or activity have been attained;
2. The continued extension of incentives or support measures for the specific
investment area is no longer to the interest of Davao City; and
3. The investment area or activity cannot attract investors within a reasonable time
and cost or may result in an unfavorable business climate.
SECTION 2L. AMENDMEI{TS TO THE LIST OF PIA - The Board. upon
recommendation of DCIPC, may recommend the amendmenVrevision to the list of PIAs to
the city mayor at any time, or at least every two years, from the issuance of the Executive
Order implementino the list of PIAs.
In no case, however. shall any amendment to the PIA impair whatever riohts may
have already been legally vested in qualified enterprises, which shall continue to enioy such
rights to the full extent allowed under this Code.

Ord. No. 042-19
CHAPTER VI, REGISTRATION OF ENTERPRISES
SECTION 22. REGISTERED ENTERPRISE - An enterprise whose activities fall
rrvithin thnca nrnvirlarl far in tha lic* nf DT
shall he elinihle ta rcni<*ar qr rhiprt tn tha
qualifications set fofth in this Code and other requirements as may be provided in the
Imolementing Rules and Reoulations.
SECTION 23. OUALIFICATIONS OF A NEW PROJECT - A new or Existing
Enterprise which intends to avail of the incentives provided for in this Code must meet the
following qualifi cations:
1. The new business enterprise must have complied with all the requirements mandated
under existing local and nationa! laws and the Constitution, by and through,
presentation of ceftificates of registration issued by either the Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC), the Depaftment of Trade and Industry (DTI) or the Cooperative
Development Authority (CDA) and other national government accrediting agencies, as
the case may be;
2. The business enterprise place of operation or production and/or facility must be
located within the territorialjurisdiction of Davao City; provided that said real property,
where the place of operation, production and/or facility is located, has not been a
subject of nor is a present subject of reclassification before the SANGGUNIANG
Panlungsod;
3. The investment must be among the approved "Preferred/Priority Areas of
Investments";
4. The investment must provide employment amongst local personnel/workerc of Davao
City as described below;
5. The new proposed project of an enterprise must have a total project cost and direct
employment of:
Project Size
Project Cost
Employment
Requirement
Smal! scale
P3 Million to P 15 Million
Not less than Ten (10)
Persons
Medium-scale
over P15 Million to P100
Million
At least Twenty (20)
Persons
Large-scale
over P100 Million
At least One Hundred
(100) persons
Under exceptional cases and for justifiable reasons clearly cited, the Board may adjust
the minimum project cost and/or employment requirement for certain projects.
SECTIOT{ 24. QUALIFICATIONS OF AI{ EXPAIIISIOI{ PROJECT- Existing
enterprise which is expanding and/or diversiffing and intends to avail of the incentives under
the Code must meet the following qualifications:

Ord. No. 042-L9
1. It must have complied with all the requirements mandated under existing local and
national Iaws and the Constitution, by and through the presentation of ceftificates of
registration issued by either the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), the
Depaftment of Trade and Industry (DI-I), the Cooperative Development Authority
(CDA) and other national government accrediting agencies, as the case may be;
2. The exoansion must fal! within the areas under the list of PIAs;
3. The existing enterprise will undertake any the following activities/projects:
a. Establish a branch within the territ0rial jurisdiction of Davao City; or
b. Expand, Modernize or Rehabilitate iE existing production capacity or construct new
buildings and other civil works for the installation of new machinery and equipment
or improvements thereof which will result in an increase in production capacity;
4. That the Expansion, Modernization or Rehabilitation shall have a total project cost and
direct employment of:
Project Size
Project Cost
REqUTREp
ADDITIONAL
Employment
Small scale
P3 Million to P 15
Million
Not less than Ten (10)
Persons
Medium-scale
over P15 Million to
P100 Million
At least Twenty (20)
Persons
Large-scale
over P100 Million
At least One Hundred
(100) Persons
SECTIOil 25. APPLICATION PROCESS - All applications must be filed with the
Board through the DCIPC. The same shall be recorded in a registration book which date of
official acceptance shall be reckoned on the date the proponents comply with all the
application requirements as defined in the next SECTION and that the same are duly received
by the Center.
Applications for Registration shall be acted upon by the Center within ten (10) working
days from the official acceptance and that the same shall be submitted to the Board with an
additional ten (10) working days, for their proper disposition. All applications will only be
deemed approved or disapproved by the Board in a meeting duly held for that purpose.
SECTION 26. APPIICATION REOUIREMET{TS - All applications shall be deemed
complete only upon compliance of the standard requirements as provided in the
Implementing Rules and Regulations of this Code.
SECTION 27. REGISTRATION AND APPROVAL PROCEDURES
A. Registration Procedure
1. All applications shall be filed before the Davao City Investment Incentive Board
through the DCIPC;
2. Applicants are required to pay the non-refundable filing fee;

Ord. No.042-19
3. Once all required documents are submitted, the project shall be recorded in the
registration book and shall be evaluated by the Center;
4. If found unqualified, the center shall inform the applicant in writing;
5. If found qualified, the Center shall forward the application to the Board, for its
proper disposition;
6. Once approved by the Board in a meeting validly held, the Center shall inform
the applicant in writing and delivers the Ceftificate of Registration; and
7. The Center shall then inform all concerned local government offices and other
entities of such approval, for their information, guidance and appropriate
action.
1. The project cost and direct employment for new enterprises, or investments for
expansion as provided in Sections 23 and 24 hereof: and
2. Plant location and business address of either new, expanded or diversified
enterprise must be within the territorialjurisdiction of Davao City.
C. Registration Aoreement
A registered enterprise under this Code shall enter into a registration agreement with
enterprise. its rights and obligations, conditions for availment of incentives, and other terms
and conditions as may be determined by the Board.
D. Ceftificate of Registration
A registered enterprise under this Code shall be issued a Ceftificate of Registration
with the signature of the Chairperson of the Board and/or such other officer as the Board
may empower and designate for the purpose.
CHAPTER VII. RIGHTS AND PRIVILEGES OF REGISTERED ENTERPRISES
SECTION 28.
GOVERNMENT - All enterprises registered under this Code are entitled to the rights and
guarantees provided by law and the Constitution, and as such, the City Government through
the Board shall:
a. Provide concise and comprehensive information to prospective investors on the
economic priorities of the City Government, including target investment areas and the
general conditions applicable to incoming direct private investments;
b. Communicate investment evaluation criteria and procedures through various
publications to enhance transparency in the process of granting Iocal government
lncentivesi
B. Evaluation Criteria
v
The foltowing criteria will be used in the evaluation of applications for registration:

Page 14.of 20
Ord. No. 042-19
c. Take the fullest possible account of the need of the investors for stability, growth and
profit on their operations and in the formulation or modification of policies and
ordinances that affect investments;
d. Not interfere or modify arrangements with the investors after the details of the
implementation of an investment project has been approved and accepted, and the
ownership and management structure of the enterprise has been established, unless
the law provides otherwise;
e. Avoid undue distortion of competition between or among enterprises operating within
its territorial jurisdiction, whether domestic or foreign, when granting any special
exemptions or incentives aimed at encouraging investments in the identified target
areas;
t. In accordance with law and where no loca! personnel or worker is qualified or capable
and available, allow the employment of qualified foreign personnel where this is
necessary, for the efftcient operation of the enterprise or for technology transfer; and
g. Resolve all doubts concerning the benefits and incentives granted under the
Ordinances enacted for the purpose of encouraging investment, in favor of the
investor.
CHAPTER UTTT, FISCAL ATTD NON-EISCAL IIICENTIVES PROWDED TO
R EGISTER E D E TY TE R PRIS ES
SECTION 29. INCENTIVES TO REGISTERED ENTERPRISES - An enterorise duly
reoistered under this Code shal! enjoy appropriate incentives as may be determined and
aoproved by the Board.
SECTION 30. TAX INCENTMS TO NEW PROIECTS - In addition to the incentives
provided by law and the national government as well, an enterprise registered under the
Code shall be granted the following incentives as may be determined appropriate by the
Board:
1. Exemption from the payment of business tax for a maximum period of three (3) years
from the actual Staft of Commercial Operation (SCO) or proiected Start of Commercial
Ooeration (SCO). whichever is earlier, of the enterprise or projgct, as the case may
bc;
2. Exemption from the payment of the basic Real Property Tax of real propefties used in
the registered business, excluding barangay share and SEF, for a maximum period of
two (2) years from the effectivity or accrual of the Real Property Tax on the new tax
declaration/assessment issued by the CiW Assessor's Office or from the start of
commercial operation of the enterprise or proiect, as the case may be; and
3. Exemption from the pavment of Mayor's Permit fees, licenses and charges, excludino
Buildino Permit fees for a maximum period of three (3) years.
The Board may orant a maximum additional one (1) year incentive fur Business Tax
and/or basic Real Propertv Tax, excluding the barangay share and SEF, as determined in the
Implementing Rules and Regulations. to the registered enterprise that has direct oositive
imoact to the promotion of activities listed in the PIAs, and/or use of indigenous raw materials
and/or will employ indigenous oeople and Persons with Disabilities (PWDsL

Ord. No. 042-L9
SECTION 31. TAX INCENTIVES TO EXPANSION PROJECTS AND
MODERNIZATION PROJECTS - An expansion or modernization project registered under
this Code shall be granted the following incentives as mav be determined appropriate by the
Board:
1. Exemption ftom Business Tax Increments (where assessment increments are solely
brought about by the expansion or diversification) for a maximum period of three (3)
years starting from January of the year succeeding the start of commercial operation
of the expansion or modernization pCIeG as the case may be; and/or
2. ExemBtion from the oayment of basic Real Propefi Tax of real properties used in
the registered business, excluding barangay and SEF share for a maximum period of
two (2) years from the effectivity or accrua! of the Real Propefi Tax on the new tax
declaration/assessment issued by the City Assessor's Office; and
3. Exemption from the payment of Mayort Permit fees, Iicenses and charges, excludino
Building Permit fees. for a maximum period of three (3) years.
The Board mav grant a maximum additional one (1) year incentive on Business Tax
and/or basic Real Property Tax. excluding the barangay share and SEF, as determined in the
Implementing Rules and Regulations, to the registered enterprise that has direct positive
impact to the promotion of activities listed in the PIAs. and/or use of indigenous raw materials
and/or will emplov indigenous people and Persons with Disabillties (PWDs).
SECTION 32. FISCAL INCENTIVES TO PROJECTS TOCATED IN PREFERRED
DISTRICTS - Investments situated in preferred districts. as provided for in the list of PIAs.
may be granted the following incentives as may be determined appropriate by the Board;
1. Exemption from the payment of Business Tax for a maximum period of five (5) years
from the actual SCO or projected SCO, whichever is earlier, of the enterprise or
project, as the case may be;
2. Exemption from the oayment of the basic Real Propertv Tax of real properties used in
the registered business, excluding baranoay share and SEF, for a maximum oeriod of
five (5) years from the effectivity or accrual of the Real ProperW Tax on the new tax
declaration/assessment issued by the Citv Assessor's Office or from the staft of
commercial operation of the enterprise or oroject. as the case mav be; and
3. Exemption from the pavment of Mavor's Permit fees. licenses and charges, excluding
Buildino Permit fees for a maximum period of five (5) years.
The Board mav grant a maximum additional one (1) year incentive on Business Tax
and/or basic Real Property Tax. excluding the barangay share and SEF, as determined in the
Imolementino Rules and Regulations, to the reoistered enterprise that has direct positive
imoact to the promotion of activities listed in the PIAs, andlor use of indigenous raw materials
and/or will employ indigenous oeople and Persons with Disabilities (PWDs).
SECTION 33. MSME DOING ACTMTIES UNDER THE PIA - In addition to the
incentives provided bv law and the national government as well, an MSME conducting
activities falling under the PIA shall be granted the following incentives as may be determined
appropriate bv the Board:

Ord. No. 042-L9
Exemption from the payment of Business Tax for a maximum period of five (5) years
from the actual SCO or projected SCO, whichever is earlier, of the enterprise oi pr6jea,
as the case may be;
ExemPtion from the payment of the basic Real Property Tax of real prooerties used in
the registered business, excluding barangay share and SEF. for a maxinrurn p,erio,d o,f
t.wo (21 years ftom the effectivity or accrual of the Real Property Tax on tlre new tax
declarationlassessment issued by the City Assessor's Office or from tfre start of
commercia! operation of the enterprise or project. as the case may be: and
3. Ex€mPtion from the oavment of Mayor's Permit fees. licenses and charges, excluding
Building Permit fees for a maximum period of three (3) years.
The Board may grant a maximum additional one (1) year incentive on Business Tax
and/or basic Real Propertv Ta& excluding the barangay share and SEF, as determined in the
Implementing Rules and Reoulations. to the registered enterorise that has direct positive
im??ct to the promotion of activities listed in the PIAs, and/or use of indigenous raw materials
and/or will employ indircnous people and Persons with Disabilities (PWDs).
SECTION 34. FISCAT INCENTMS TO SOCIAL ENTERPRISE (SE) - A Social
Enterprise (SE) shall be entitled to the exemption from the payment of Mayor's permit fees.
licenses and charoes excluding the Buildino Permit fees, for a maximum of one (1) vear as
long as it meets the criteria set bv the Board.
SECTION 35. INCENTIVES TO IAND OWNERS SELLING OR EilTERING INTO
PARTNERSHIPS FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF ECOZONE. Land owners who will sell or
paftner with developers of an Economic Zone Area shall be granted the following incentives
as may be determined appropriate by the Board:
1. Entitled to Fifty Percent (50o/o) discount from the payment of local transfer tax;
2. Exemotion from the oavment of basic Real Property Tax of real oroperties used in the
registered business, excluding barangav share and SEF, for a maximum period of two
(2) years from the effectivitv or accrual of the Real Prooerty Tax on the new tax
declaration/assessment issued bv the City Assesso/s Office or from the start of
commercial operation of the enterprise or p0ect, as the case may be:
3. Assistance in the talks and coordination with informal settlers; and
4. Assistance in the imolementation of demolitions.
SECTION 36' NON-FISCAI INCENTIVES TO REGISTERED ENTERPRISES. The
following seruices or privileoes will be orovided by the city to registered enterprises:
a. Provide express/prioritv lane for the orocessing of Mayor's Permit and other local
permits;
b. Assistance in securing special operating local permits and licenses (i.e, FDr4 producf
rea istrations 4 icense to operate \
c. Assistance in the site selection and neqotiation for rioht of way;

l
Ord. No. 042-Lg
d. In coordindtion with the relevant government aoencies, recommend acadari.
Frograms in the citv university and other learning institutions as may be reouired by
registered enterprise for their human resource reouirements;
e. Business/industru oroanization or ioint venture matching;
f. PrioritY access to financial and technical assistance programs of the city government
and other qovernment agencies;
g. Least priority in audiUtax assessment by the City;
h. Facilitate service connections with local utilities;
i. Facilitate the provision of security measures and facilities, such as hotlines with the
local fire and police departments; and
j. other seruices or privileges that may be authorized by the Board.
SECTION 37. NON-FISCAI INCENTIVES TO ENTITIES SUPPORTING (SEsI -
The City will oive special recognition/ award to enterorises, whether registered with the Board
or not, that patronize the products or seruices of the SES. Such enterprises shall also be given
priority seruice when transactino with the City Government.
SECTION 38. EXTENSIOT{ ON INCENTMS AVAILMENT - Subject to such
quidelines as may be prescribed by the Board, the incentives enjoyed by a reoistered
enterprise can be extended or adjusted under any of the following circumstances:
A. The registered enterprise has suffered operationa! force maieure that has impaired
its viability;
B. The reoistered enterprise has not fullv enjoyed the incentives granted to it for
reasons beyond its control;
C. The project of the registered enterprise has a gestation period, which ooes beyond
the period of availment of needed incentives; or
D. The operation of the registered enterprise has been subiected to unforeseen
changes in government policies. which would affect its sustainability and
profitability.
SECTION 39. ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS - In order for enterprises to avail of
the above incentives, the concerned project/s in such preferred invesffinent areas or activities
should apply for incentives with DCIPC within six (6) months from the date of the issuance
of their business permit. Investments in such Preftrred Investment Areas or activities whose
period of operation is already beyond the above prescribed period shall no longer be qualifted
to apply for incentives.
Fufthermore, the City Treasure/s Office is tasked to provide the Board with the list
and amount of incentives that every project has enjoyed during the exemption period.

Ord. No. 042-Lg
CHAPTERIX. APPROPRIATIOTYS
SECTION 40. APPROPRIATIONS - To defray the expenses for Personal Seruices
(PS), Maintenance and Other Operating Expenses (MOOE) and Capital/Equipment Outlay
necessary for the implementation of the provisions of this Ordinance, funds shall be sourced
through a Supplemental Budget, from the General Fund and/or from the 20olo Annual
Development Fund. Appropriation for the succeeding years shall be included in the regular
annual budget. Likewise, the Board and the Technical Secretariat shall be provided with the
necessary appropriation for its operation which would be chargeable to the Office of the City
Mayor, as the Chairperson of the Davao City Investment Incentive Board, in order to carry
out its objectives and mandate.
CHAPTER X. MISCETLANEOUS PROVISIONS
SECTIOT{ 41. SUBMIS$Oil OF REPORTS AI{D OTHER DOCUMEI{TS - Every
registered enterprise shall, for each Preferred/Priority Area of Investments, submit to the
Board the following reports and/or documents within the time herein prescribed:
a. Amendment of Atticles of Incorporation or By-laws, Articles of Partnership, or
Articles of Cooperation within thirty (30) calendar days from the date of submission
of the said amendments with the Securities and Exchange Commission or
Cooperative Development Authority;
b. Change of Directors within thifty (30) calendar days from the change;
c. Quafterly Repoft on employment of bonafide Davao City residents including regular,
contractual, temporary or hired through an agency within thifty (30) calendar days
from the end of each quarter;
d. Quafterly Report on the enterprise's business operations, including its production
or gross sales or receipts and the list of products and seruices that it provides to its
customers within thirty (30) calendar days from the end of each quarter;
e. Audited Annual Financial Statements within thirly (30) calendar days after its
submission to the Bureau of Internal Revenue (BIR);
f. Report on total local incentives availed of under this Code; and
s. Other repofts that may be required by the Board or the Center.
CHAPTER XI. FINAT PROVISIONS
SECTIOI{ 42. SANCTIONS FOR LATE SUBMISSION OF REPORTORIAL
REOUIREMENTS - For late submission of the reportoria! requirements, every registered
enterprise shall, for each Preferred/Priority Area of Investment, be fined in accordance with
the following:
For non and/or late submission of quafterly repofts under SECTION 41, and other
repofts under the same SECTION:
a
1st violation - P 500.00 per day until the requirement has been fully complied with;

Ord. No. 042-t9
b. 2nd violation - P 1,000.00 per day until the requirement has been fully complied with;
and
c. 3d violation - cancellation and revocation of the Certificate of Registration.
In all instances, an enterprise is only allowed to comply and submit any report or
document within a period of thifi (30) days, otherwise, its Certificate of Registration, shall
be subject to revocation by the Board.
Cancellation or revocation of registration for failure to comoly with the reooftorial
reouirements shall not result in the retroactive withdrawal of incentives previousii enjoyed
by the reqistered enterprise.
SECTIOil 43. PENAI CI-AUSE - Any violation of the provisions of this Code, existing
laws, Ordinances, rules and regulations, shall be ground for the cancellation or revocation of
the registration of the business and the withdrawal of all the incentives granted under the
Code.
The Certificate of Registration of a business enterprise, as provided in this Code and
these Rules, may be canceled or revoked due to the bllowing:
a. Violation of the provisions of this Code and these Rules;
b. Violation of existing local and national laws, Ordinances, rules and regulations;
c. Failure to commence actual project development within one (1) year from approval
of registration; and
d. Material misrepresentation or fraud for the purpose of availing the incentives
provided for in this Code.
Gncellation or revocation of the Certificate of Registration based on the above
orounds shall mean the withdrawal of all the incentives granted under this Code; and all fees,
charges and taxes, previously exempted, including surcharqe and interest, shall become due
and demandable.
Upon the recommendation of the C,enter, the Board may cancel or revoke the
Certificate of Registration of the concerned business enterprise through a formal written
notice to that effect, and shall become effective on the 16th day from receipt thereof.
SECTION 44. APPROVAL - All decisions made by the Board on the applications
shall be final and executory.
SECTION 45. CONFIDENTIALITY CLAUSE - All applications and their suppofting
documents filed under this Code shall be confidential. except with the consent of the applicant
or upon the order of a couft of competent jurisdiction.
SECTION 46. IMPLEMENTING RULES AND REGUTATIONS - Within ninety (90)
days after the oassaoe of this Code, the Board shall promuloate and oublish the necessary
implementing rules.

Ord. No. 042-L9
SECTION 47. SEPARABITIW CLAUSE - The provisions of this Ordinance are
hereby declared to be separable, and in the event that one or more of the provisions hereof
are held illegal or unconstitutional, the validity of the other provisions shall not be affected
thereby.
SECTION 48. REPEALING CIAUSE - Ordinances, Executive Orders and other local
legislation inconsistent with this Ordinance are hereby modified or repealed accordingly.
SECTION 49.
- This Ordinance shal! take effect thity (30) days after
its publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the City of Davao and after posting for
three (3) consecutive weeks in conspicuous places at the City Hall of Davao and at least two
(2) other conspicuous places in the local government unit concerned.
ENACTED, September 24, 20L9, by a unanimous vote of all the Members of the
Sanggunian, there being a quorum.
CERNFIED CORRECT:
ihqkilil.,#ilo,
Secretary to the Sang(uniang Panlungsod
(City Government Depaftment Head II)
ATTESTED:
SEBASTIAN Z. DUTERTE
Vice Mayor
Presiding Officer
cns/bem
0 3 DEC 2019
2019
z.
citv Mavy:
ATTY.
LEIKA
ATTESTED:
City Adm
a
PEZ