' 'i
. Republib of the PhiliPPines
OFFICE'OF THE CITY MAYOR
a
v
r.$
'b
ty
E!)
R€f. hlo. CA&2019{4U59
2Nd INDORSEMENT
t{overnber 13, 2019
Respectfully returned to Ms. Charito N. Santos, Secretary to the SANGGUNIANG
Panlungsod, this City, the within Legal Opinion No. 674, Selries of 2019 dated
November 4, 20L9 of the City Legal Office, relative to the attached duly signed and
apprwed Ordinance No. 049-19, SERIES of 2019 entitled, "AN ORDINANCE FURTHER
AMENDING ORDINANCE NO. 0292-06, SERIES OF 2006, "THE COMPREHENSIVE
CHILDREN AND FAMILY SUPPORT SYSTEM IN DAVAO CTTY, AS AMENDED",
OTHERWISE KNOWN AS "DAVAO CITY CHILDREN'S WELFARE CODE, AS AMENDED",
for your information and appropriate action.
Fsr the City Mayor:
ATTY. TRISTAN
NGO
Assistant
NOV 15 20lg lo;r
\
ll'4-,
EDTTHA GATAO
ADMINISTRATIVE AIDE IV
LIFE Ig HERE
Second Floor, City Hall Building, City Hall Drive, San Pedro St., Davao City
(082) 224-3004 o (082) 241-10b0 bc.265 . davaocitymayor@gmail.com
@
I
AND
DIV
RELEASE EE

\
OFFICE OF TH,E CITY LEGAL O
Tel. No. 298-6970
Trunk Line No. 241-1000 Loc26712251230
@
Ref. No. CLO-2019-0003888
Legal Opinion No.
SERIES of 2019
1't INDoRSEMENT
November 4, Z0lg
Respectfully fonruarded to the Office of the City Mayor, through the Office
of the City Administrator, both this City, the subject drdinance ruo. O?g-t9 SERIES
of 2019, with the information that this office finds no legal infirmity in the
passage of the subject ordinance, it appearing that the same is well within the
p9!v9r of the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod citing SLction 17 (b) (2) (iv) and SECTION
4s8 (s) (b) (v1) to quote:
RE: ORDINANCE No 049-19, SERIES oF zotg ENTITLED "AN
ORDINANCE FURTHER AMENDING ORDINANCE NO. 0292-06,
SERIES OF 2006, "THE COMPREHENSIVE CHILDREN AND FAMILY
SUPPORT SYSTEM IN DAVAO CTTY, AS AMENDED'; OTHERWISE
KNOWN AS "DAVAO CITY CHILDREN'S WELFARE CODE, AS
AMENDED"
"SECTION 12.
Basic seruices and Facilities. (a) Locat
government units shall endeavor to be self-reliant and shati continue
exercising the powers and dixharging the duties and functions cuTently
vested upon them. They shatt atso dr'scharge the functions and
responsibilities of national agencies and offices devolved to them purcuant
to this Code. Local government units shatl tikewise exerase such other
powers and discharge such other functions and responsibititrEs as are
necessaryl appropriatq or incidental to efficient and effective provision of
the basb seruices and facilities enumerated herein.
(b) Such basic seruices and facitities inctude, but are not timited tq
the following:
2. For a Municipality-
(iv)social welfare seruices whr?h inctude programs and projects on
child and youth welfare, famity and community wetrare, womenb wetfare,
welfare of the elderty and disabled persons; community-based
rehabilitation programs for uagrants, beggars, street children, ,oi"ng"u,
juvenile delinquents, and victims of drug abuse; tivetihood ind otheipropoor projecb; nutrition seruices; and family ptanning seruices;
sEcrIoN 468.
powers, Duties, Functions and compensation.
- @ The SANGGUNIANG panlalawigan, as the tegistative ooay of the
province, shall enact ordinances, approve resoluiions and appropriate
funds for the general welfare of the province and ib inhabitanb'pubuant
XXX
.r'
tq&-Ltr
A;
ii(.35)i
MA
;lt)
&
DtvtSt0N
RECORDS
E D

i
ATTY.
A. GALIO, RSW
Acting
Legal Officer
GAL o
I
o
OFHOE OF THE Si'iY
csH |;lri
et'*i.t
TEGEIUEII Sil
to SECTION 16 of this code in the proper exercise of the corprate powers
of the province as provided for under SECTION 22 of this code and ihatt:
XXXX
(S)Approve ordinances which shail ensure the efficient and
elective delivery of the basb seruices and facilities as provided for under
SECTION 17 of this Code, and in addition to sid seruices and facitities,
shall:
vi) Provtde pr tle are of paupers, the agd, the sick, persons of
unsound minQ abandoned minorc, abusd chitdren, drsab'ted pionr,
iyvenite delinquents, drug dependents, and other nedy and
disaduantaged particularty childrin and youth betow ignt*,
(.18) years of age; subject to auaitabitity of funds, estabtish ana iuppon
the operation of centers and facitities ior said nedy and drsaduaiHged
persons; and facilitate efforts to promote the welfare of families betoitne
poverty threshold, the disdvantaged, and the exploited.,,
In view thereof, this office recommends the approval of the subject
ordinance.
xxx
Approved by
ATTY. OSMUN
OIC-Acting City
P. VILLANUEVA, JR
Officer
i
l
C
Date of
l: November 4,20L9
1-4-19
@tee
'rrE 0
€;ft^
t'l0\/
ceG- aa64it0
i>s,
'J .r
N6r
Republic -oFfie Philippines
October 18, 2019
101101.
SARA Z. DUTERTE
City Mayor
\, r.L
/r
rfl
O
i.
Madam:
u0-20n-w88s P.qo
pursuant to Sub-SECTION 3, Paragraph C, SECTION 469, Article One, Title Five,
Chapter 3, Book III and SECTION 54 of Book I Republic Act No. 7160, otherwise known
as the Local Government Code of 1991, we are furnishing you a copy of Resolution No.
0168-19 and Ordinance No. O4g-lg, both SERIES of 2019, of the SANGGUNIANG
Panlungsod, this City, for your information, guidance and appropriate action'
t
Very truly Yours,
I
^dn/uryrd >, - {'^<
Ci{ARITO N. SANTOS
Secretary to the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod
(City Government Department Head II)
@rrEsroNoExct E rtcoiDs Dtvtstoil
RECEI.VED
0cr 24 20lg
ffi,
cua
t
i40
MARY

l,
19th City Council
12th Regular Session
SERIES of 2019
PRESENT:
Vice Mayor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
PRESENT:
Councilor
Councilor
Councilor
Sebastian Z. Dutefte
Ralph O. Abella
Nilo D. Abellera
Bai Hundra Cassandra Dominique N. Advincula
Wilbefto E. Al-ag
Dante L. Apostol Sr.
Conrado C. Baluran
Jessica M.Bonguyan
Louie John J, Bonguyan
Pilar C. Braga
Augusto Javier G. Campos III
Danilo C. Dayanghirang
Jonard C. Dayap
Edgar R. Ibuyan Sr.
Richlyn N. Justol-Baguilod
Pamela A. Librado-Morata
Diosdado Angelo lunior R. Mahipus
Bonifacio E. Militar
Myrna G. L'Dalodo-Oftiz
Antoinette G. Principe-Castrodes
l. Melchor B. Quitain Jr.
Albefto T. Ungab
Mary Joselle D. Villafuefte
Jesus Joseph P. Zozobrado III
Maria Belen S. Acosta
Edgar P. Ibuyan Jr.
Jaffar U. Marohomsalic
- Presiding Offlcer
- On Vacation Leave
- On Official Business
- On Sick Leave
ORDINANCE NO. 049.19
SERIES of 2019
AN ORDINANCE FURTHER AMENDING ORDINANCE NO.
0292-06, SERIES OF 2006, *THE COMPREHENSIVE
CHILDREN AND FAMILY SUPPORT SYSTEM IN DAVAO CITY,
AS AMENDED", OTHERWISE KNOWN AS *DAVAO CITY
CHTLDREN',S WELFARE CODE, AS AMENDED"
)
Ir

jr
Ord. No. 049-19
Be it ordained by the Honorable SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod of Davao City in session
assembled, that:
ARTICLE I
Title, Policy, Principles, and Definition of Terms
SECTION 1. TITLE- This Ordinance shall be known as "AN ORDINANCE
FURTHER AMENDING ORDTNANCE NO. 0292-06, SERIES OF 2006, *THE
COMPREHENSIVE CHILDREN AND FAMILY SUPPORT SYSTEM IN DAVAO CITY,
AS AMENDEDi OTHERWTSE KNOWN AS'DAVAO CITY CHILDREN',S WELFARE
coDE, AS AMENDED".
SECTION 2. DECLARATION OF POLICY AND PRINCIPLES OF THE LOCAL
GOVERNMENT OF DAVAO CITY- It is hereby declared to be the policy of the Local
Government of Davao City that the rights of children to their suruival, protection,
participation and development must be given high priority; it will work for the respect for
the role of the family in providing for children and will support the effofts of parents,
other child care and development workers, Non-Government Organizations (NGOs) and
communities to nufture and care for children, from infancy including the earliest stages
of childhood to adolescence.
It shall be the policy of the Local Government of Davao City to ensure that the
programs aimed at the achievement of goals for the suruival, protection, pafticipation
and development of children must be given priority when resources are allocated. Every
effott shall be made by the Local Government of Davao CiW to ensure that such
programs are protected in times of economic austerity and structural adjustments.
SECTION 3. DEFINITION OF TERMS
a) BENEFIT DANCE- also known as community disco, refers to a
dance in the locality wherein young girls and boys in the process
are being commodified for fund raising purposes.
b) CHILD ABUSE refers to the maltreatment of the child,
whether habitual or not, which includes any of the following:
Psychological and physical abuse, neglect, cruelty, sexual
abuse and emotional maltreatment;
Any act by deed or words which debases, degrades or
demeans the intrinsic wofth and dignity of a child as a human
being;
Unreasonable deprivation of his/her basic needs of sulival
such as food and shelter; or
Failure to immediately give medical treatment to an injured
child resulting to serious impairment of his/her growth and
development or permanent incapacity or death.
exploitation or is harmful to his/her health and safety or physical,
mental or psy-chosocial development as provided by Republic Act
No. 9231.
a
o
c)

Ord. No. 049-19
d) CHILD PROSTITUTION - is the sale, purchase, exchange,
employment or hiring the services of children, or any attempt
thereof, for the purpose of engaging in sexual intercourse or
lascivious conduct for money, profit or other considerations by
another.
e) CHILD TRAFFICKING refers to the act of recruitment,
transfer, or deployment of a child, and/or harboring or receipt of
child with or without the victim's consent or knowledge, fraud or
deceit, violence, coercion, intimidation, abuse of position or
authority, within or across national borders for purposes of
prostitution, work, seruices, marriage or adoption and other
similar arrangement characterized by forced labor, slavery-like
practices of sexual exploitation.
f) CHILDREN - refer to persons below eighteen (18) years of age
or those over but unable to fully take care of themselves to
protect themselves from abuse, neglect, cruelty, exploitation or
discrimination because of physical and mental disability
condition.
g) CHILDREN IN CONFLICT WITH THE LAW - refer to persons
below 18 years old who are alleged to have committed or who
have been found to have committed offense(s) under Philippine
laws.
h) CHILDREN IN NEED OF SPECIAL PROTECTION - refer to
children living under circumstances which gravely threaten or
endanger their suruival and normal development as defined and
expanded to include victims of STD-HIV-AIDS, physical and
emotional neglect, and sex exploitation; Children in Conflict With
the Law, dependent, abandoned, neglected, girl children, and
children in various circumstances of disabilities. Also included are
those children with disabilities, children involved in armedconflict, children at risk, and those teens who became pregnant.
i) crRcuMsTANcEs wHrcH GRAVELY THREATEN OR
ENDANGER THE SURVIVAL AND NORMAL DEVELOPMENT
OF CHILDREN - these include, but are not limited to, the
following:
Being in a community where there is armed conflict or being
affected by armed conflict -related activities;
Working under conditions hazardous to life, safety and
morals which unduly interfere with their normal development
or working without provisions for their education;
Living in or fending for themselves in the streets of urban
and rural areas without the care of parents or guardian or
any adult supervision needed for their welfare;
Being a member of an indigenous cultural community and/or
living under conditions of extreme povefi or in an area
which is underdeveloped and/or lack or has inadequate
access to basic seruices needed for a good quality life;
a
a
a
ir
J,
a

a
Ord. No. 049-19
Being with family members or guardians having
psychological problems grave enough for them to commit
incest, sibling rape, lascivious acts and other forms of
physical and mental abuse;
Being a victim of human-made or natural disaster or
calamity;
Being a victim of an illegal transnational union; or child
trafficking; and
Circumstance analogous to those above stated which
endanger the life, safety or normal development of children
a
o
a
j) CoMPREHENSTVE CHTLDREN'S SUPPORT SYSTEM
AGAINST CHILD ABUSE, EXPLOITATION AND
DISCRIMINATION - refers to the coordinated program of
seruices and facilities to protect children against:
. Child prostitution and other sexual abuse;
. Child trafficking;
. Other acts of abuse; and
. circumstances which threaten or endanger the survival and
normal development of children or as prescribed in the
United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child.
k) CoMPREHENSTVE SUPPORT SYSTEM FOR THE
DEVELOPMENT OF CHILDREN - refers to the coordinated
program of services outlined in Sec. 3 of RA 6972 and as
prescribed by the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the
chitd.
l) DAVAO CITY SPECTAL OFFTCE FOR CHILDREN'S
CONCERNS (SOCC) - refers to the line-function office that
shall be created by the Local Government of Davao City
responsible for the implementation of this Ordinance with
regulatory, coordinative, monitoring and evaluative functions
speciflc to children's rights promotion and protection distinct
from the direct service function of the Davao City's social welfare
arm, the City Social Services and Development Office (CSSDO)"
m)CHILD PORNOGRAPHY - refers to any representation.
whether visual, audio, or written combination thereof, by
electronic, mechanical, digital, optical, magnetic or any other
means, of child engaged or involved in real or simulated explicit
sexual activities.
n) CYBERSEX - the willful engagement. maintenance. control. or
operation, directly or indirectly, of any lascivious exhibition of
sexual organs or sexual activity, with the aid of a computer
system, for favor or consideration.
o) DEVELOPMENT RIGHTS - pertain to the access of a child to
educational opportunities, access to relevant information, play,
leisure, cultural activities and the right to freedom of thought,
conscience and religion.

Ord. No. 049-19
p) ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENTS aTe business
establishments which include bars, nightclubs, beer houses, cocktail
lounges, and massage clinics, karaoke bars/sing-arong pub houses
within Davao City.
qr KASAMBAHAY DESK oFFrcER - subject to the provisions of
Republic Act No. 10361 or the Kasambahay Law and its
implementing rules and regulations. a kasambahay desk officer is a
person assigned to Kasambahay Desk in the barangay hall who is
resoonsible for accomodatino
continuous reo
of the
employers of the kasambahay within the barangay.
r) LEARNERS -shall refer to children enrolled in a school.
s)
learners within the school.
t) LEARNERS CLUB - is an organization of learners within a
school for a specific purpose. The purpose shall be related with
school-based activities.
u) INTERNET CAFES - are business establishments using the
worldwide web or internet system that enable users to view and
interact with a variety of information accessed through a
computer connected to local area network. It may offer email
seruices, chatting, games and surfing services.
v) INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDER - refers to the local or
national network provider of Internet Seruices.
w) PARTICIPATION RIGHTS - include child's freedom to express
oneself in matters affecting his/her life as part of preparation for
responsible parenthood and to freedom of association.
x) PERSONS ENGAGED IN PROSTITUTION shail
include/encompass, but shall not be limited to, the pimF,
procurer of the seruice or customer, parents, owners, managers
or operators of establishments such as disco bars, sauna baths,
massage clinics, movie houses, vehicles like cars, taxi cabs or
any other forms of transpoftation, hotels and restaurants, and
any other persons who employ various schemes to prostitute
persons.
y) PRorEcTroN RIGHTS - cover those which guard children
against all forms of child abuse, exploitation and discrimination
in the major areas where a child is considered in extremely
difflcu lt ci rcu msta nces.
z) QUICK RESPONSE CENTER refers to the inter-agency
center operated by the City Social Seruices and Development
Office (CSSDO) in coordination with the Special Office for
children's concerns which created the Kean Gabriel Hofline to
provide a 24-hour quick response for children who are in need of
special protection.

aa) SURVIVAL RIGHTS - deal with the provision in relation to
parental and governmental duties and liabilities, adequate living
standard and access to basic health, health seruices and social
security.
bb) WORKING SIILD -ur prorid.d by R.prbti. A.t No. 9231.
Ord. No. 049-19
or economic activity that is not child labor as defined in the
information.
Afticle II. Governino Laws
children, such as but not limited to:
1. PD 603 - The Child and youth Welfare Code
3.
4. RA 8353 - Anti Rape (1997);
of 2004;
Providing Pena lties Therefor;
a
o
h
SECTION 1.
10. RA 8980:.Th" Ea.ly childhood ca." "rd D"r"lop."nt
Act of 2000 (ECCD Act);
11. RA 9165 - Comprehensive Dangerous Drugs AcU

PageT of 31
Ord. No. 049-19
t2.
Children;
13. RA 9231 - The Anti-Child Labor Law;
L4. RA 9211 - Regulating the Use and Distribution of Tobacco
Products;
15. RA 9344 - luvenile lustice and Welfare Act of 2006;
16. RA 9775 - Anti-Child Pornooraphv Act of 2009;
L7. RA 10360 - An Act Strenqthenino the Juvenile Justice
svstem in the Philipoines. Amendino for the Puroose
Reoublic Act No. 9344;
18. RA 10410 - Early Years Act (EYA'I of 2013;
19. RA 10533 - Enhanced Basic Education Act of 2013;
20. RA 10666 - Chitdren's safew on Motorcvcles Act of
2015;
2L. RA 10821 - Children's Emerqency Relief and
Protection Act;
22. RA 10627-An Act of Requirino all Elementary and Secondary
Qrhnnls tn Adnnt Pnliries tn P
ront :nrl Arldrpss
Artc nf
Bullying in their Institutions
23. RA 11036 - National Mental Health Policy
24. RA 11037 - "Masustansvano Paqkain para sa Batano
Pilipino Act"
25. RA 11148 - "Kalusuqan at Nutrisvon ng Mag-Nanav
Act'
26. RA 11188 - "special Protection of Children in
Situations of Armed Conflict Act"
27.
Administrative
Order No. 7. SERIES of 2
rDSWD)
with the Law.

SECTION 1.
SECTION 2.
Page B of 31
Ord. No. 049-19
Adicle III Protection Rights of Children
PROGRAM ON CHILD ABUSE, EXPLOTTATION AND
DISCRIMINATION. There shall be a comprehensive program to
be formulated by the Local Council for the Protection of Children
(LCPC), other governmental agencies, and the private sector
concerned within one (1) year from the effectivity of this Ordinance,
to protect children against all forms of child abuse and exploitation
including child prostitution and other sexual abuse; child trafficking;
obscene publications and indecent shows and other acts of abuse;
and circumstances which endanger child survival and normal
development.
CHILD PROSTITUTION AND OTHER SEXUAL ABUSE. Children,
whether male or female, who for money, profit or any other
consideration or due to the coercion or influence of any adult,
syndicate or groups, indulge in sexual intercourse or lascivious
conduct, are deemed to be children exploited in prostitution and
other sexual abuse. The following shall be liable under this
Ordinance:
Acting as a procurer of a child for prostitution by means of
written or oral advertisements or other similar means;
Inducing a person to be a client of a prostituted child by
means of written or oral adveftisements or other similar
means;
Entering into a relationship with, or taking advantage of a
child for prostitution;
Threatening or using violence towards a child to engage
him/her as a prostitute or participant in indecent shows; and
Giving monetary consideration, goods or other pecuniary
benefit to a child with the intent to engage such child in
prostitution.
b.) Those other persons who commit acts as stated in Afticle III of
Republic Act No. 76t0 and shall be penalized accordingly as
prescribed in the same without prejudice to the prosecution of the
same acts under our existing national laws.
The Barangay
Offlcials, through the Barangay Council for the Protection of Children
shall actively monitor the recruitment of children for purposes of
child prostitution at the barangay level and they shall conduct
educational and information campaign against child prostitution to
facilitate effective monitoring of the same;
a
o
o
a
I
I
a) Those who engage in or promote, facilitate or induce child
prostitution which include, but are not limited to, the following:

SECTION 3.
SECTION 4.
SECTION 5.
Ord. No. 049-19
SANCTIONS FOR ESTABLISHMENTS OR ENTERPRISES
WHICH PROMOTE, FACILITATE OR CONDUCT ACTMTTES
CONSTITUTING CHILD PROSTITUTION AND OTHER SEXUAL
ABUSE, CHILD TRAFFICKING, OBSCENE PUBLICATIONS
AND INDECENT SHOWS. All establishments or enterprises which
promote, or facilitate child prostitution and sexual abuse, child
trafficking, obscene publications and indecent shows and other acts
of abuse shall be immediately closed, their authority or license to
operate canceled, without prejudice to the owner or manager
thereof being prosecuted under this Ordinance.
The Business Bureau shall designate personnel to act upon
complaints to determine and/or validate reports of establishments or
enterprises which promote, or facilitate child prostitution and sexual
abuse, child trafflcking, obscene publications and indecent shows
and other acts of abuse.
A sign with words "OFF LIMITS" shall be conspicuously displayed
outside the establishments or enterprises by the Davao City Special
Office for Children's Concerns (SOCC) for a period of not more than
one year.
ESTABLISHMENTS TO POST NOTICES AND INFORMATION
AT ENTRY OR FRONT DESKS REGARDING CHILD
PROTECTION. All hotels, inns, motels, sauna baths and other
establishments of similar seruices including movie houses shall be
required to post reasonable notices and information about child
protection.
Night clubs, massage parlors and other establishments intended
wholly for adults shall be required to post restrictive notices and
information such as "children bel
1B vears old are not allowed" to
serue as deterrent to committing child trafficking, prostitution and
other sexual abuse.
To ensure the compliance by the concerned establishments to this
SECTION of the Ordinance, the SOCC, through the Business Bureau of
the Office of the City Mayor shall require these establishments to
post such information or notices before their respective licenses
shall be renewed and/or approved.
CHILD TRAFFICKING. Any person who shall engage in child
trafficking as defined in this Ordinance, shall suffer the penalty as
prescribed in Article IV of Republic Act No. 7610.
The arresting authorities are mandated by this Ordinance to file a
case on child trafficking against the apprehended individual(s). The
pafticipation of the Depaftment of Labor and Employment (DOLE),
Philippines Ports Authority (PPA), Land Transportation Office (LTO),
MARINA and the Land Transportation Franchising and Regulatory
Board (LTFRB) as well as the Anti-Trafficking Ordinance of the City
is enjoined.

SECTION 6.
SECTION 7.
Ord. No. 049-19
ATTEMPT TO COMMIT CHILD TRAFFICKING -There is an
attempt to commit child trafficking under SECTION 9 of this
Ordinance:
When a minor below 18 years old travels alone to or from
Davao City by land, by air, or by sea, and using public and
plivate transportation without valid reason therefore and
without clearance issued by the Davao City Special Office for
Children's Concerns or written permit or justification from the
parents or legal guardians;
When a pregnant mother, father or guardian executes an
affidavit of consent for adoption for a consideration; or
consent, participates or in any manner cause the registration
of the birth of such child in the name of another with or
without consideration ;
When a person, agency, establishment or child-caring
institution recruits a woman or couples to bear children for
the purpose of child-trafflcking;
When a doctor, hospital or clinic official employee, nurse,
midwife, local civil registrar or any other person simulates
birth for the purpose of child trafficking;
When a person engages in the act of finding children among
low-income families, hospitals, clinics, nurseries, day-care
centers or other child caring institutions who can be offered
for the purpose of child trafficking; or
When any person, authority, agency or institution who are
witnesses to and fails to repoft transactions related to
circumstances in child trafficking.
a
o
a
a
a
Penalties prescribed under this Ordinance shall be imposed upon the
principles of the attempt to commit child trafficking without
prejudice to the prosecution of the same acts under our existing
national laws. In addition, a one-month community service shall be
imposed for the commission and omission of acts under SECTION 3.
This provision shall amend SECTION 4 (B) of Ordinance No.0532-lB,
otherwise known as, "Expended Anti-Trafficking in Persons Act of
2072".
PROHIBITION ON ESTABLISHMENTS SELLING OR
ALLOWING TO BE SOLD TO CHTLDREN CIGARETTES AND
oTHER TOBACCO PRODUCTS, BEE& LIQUO& OTHER
TNTOXTCATING BEVERAGES AND CONTACT CEMENT (E.G.
RUGBY) SOLVENT AND VOLATILE SUBSTANCES. All wholesale,
retail, hardware, stores, grocery or convenience stores as well as all
other business establishments in the city are prohibited from selling
or serving beer, liquor, coconut wine and other intoxicating
beverages, cigarettes and other tobacco products and contact
cement solvent (rugby) to all children.
o

SECTION 8.
Ord. No. 049-19
For purposes of this Ordinance, the penalty for the commission of
such act as prescribed in Presidential Decree 1619 and in local
ordinances shall be imposed. The filing of cases against
establishments violating this provision must be closely enforced and
monitored. The victim of the act committed under this SECTION shall
be entrusted to the care of appropriate agencies in coordination
with the Davao City Special Office for Children's Concern (SOCC).
Any person/s who shall cause the child to purchase or buy
intoxicating beverages, cigarettes and other tobacco products, and
contact cement solvent (rugby) shall be penalized under this
ordinance in the same manner as those who shall seil or induce a
child to buy or purchase the aforementioned products.
CONTROL ON CHILDREN'S EXPOSURE TO COMMERCIAL
VIDEO, INTERNET GAMES AND OTHER ELECTRONIC GAMES.
operators of coin operated Internet Machines and other
commercial establishments catering rental of electronic video games
and/or offering Local Area Network (LAN) services shall not provide
gaming seruices to children during school days.
electronic-mail , fax, games, chatting, surfing and other such
services covered by Internet technology and/or LAN Technology
which are accessed for a fee and/or other business establishments
offering a combination of services such as food and Internet, bar
and Internet recreation, Internet and other combinations shall not
allow children to stay in their premises during school days unless for
speciflc educational or studv DurDoses such as research. datagathering or statistical treatment duly assigned by a teacher or tutor
or any educational institution representative. Violators of this
specific provision shall suffer penalty prescribed by this ordinance,
operated Internet Machine, shall not allow internet and/or LAN
day unless accompanied by a parent or guardian.
commercial establishments or cafes offering Internet seruices
and/or tAN Technology portraying violent games shall be regulated.
Pornography, hacking, and gambling shall be stricUy prohibited.
Monitoring of the same shall be ensured at the Barangay rever
through the Barangay Council for the Protection of Children.
As an alternative to increased patronage of children to commercial
videogames, electronic Aames and internet cafes, all public and
private schools are enjoined to put up recreational-educational
facilities which shall include but not limited to internet centers and
sports facilities to cater to children with the funding support of the
Local Government of Davao City.

Ord. No. 049-19
Physical and outdoor activities shall be promoted.
This provision shall amend SECTION B (g) and SECTION 13.A.6. of
Ordinanro I\ln
)7O-1 E nthonlrica lznnr,rrn rc
p Tntornef l^af6
Ordinance of Davao City".
APPOINTMENT OF CHILD AND YOUTH RELATIONS
oFFICER(S) WITHIN THE WOMEN AND CHTLDREN'S
PRorEcrroN DESK. Each Police station and the Bureau of Jail
Management and Penology (BJMP) in Davao City shall have a
created by the
8551 tasked to
The wcPD must function purely as such, exclusively as wcpD for a
period of five consecutive years. A memorandum of agreement with
the PNP shall be forged by the local government of Davao city
indicating the same. Police stations shall build a separate receptioncum-interview center for the women and children protection Desk
(wcPD) to ensure a child-friendly atmosphere in handring cases
involving children. All police stations shall promote child-friendly
units.
The wcPD personnel shall be on call for 24 hours and shall be
assisted by a social worker at the district level and the Quick
Response center, In rescue operations, the personner must respond
with the presence of a social worker in the rescue of children but
the case must still be indorsed to a government social worker
aftenvards.
There must be at least one female police offlcer in every WCPD.
There shall be a child-friendly room within the women and
children's Protection Desk of the Davao city police office as venue
for the interuiew of victims of heinous crimes under 18 years of age.
child-friendly police procedures shall be implemented as contained
in the existing police manuals and handbooks. Each wcpD
personnel shall be provided with a copy of the police manuals and
handbooks.
SPECIAL COURSE FOR pNp MEMBERS, AND AUXILIARY
MEMBERS oF BARANGAY. A special training for members of the
Philippine National Police (pNp) shail be designed by the Socc to
effectively handle children in need of special protection.
The police officers must undergo trainings on the management of
cases of children in Need of special protection and Gender
Sensitivity Trainings before assuming the functions of a wcpD.
All police officers shall take up the training, especiaily those who are
to be assigned in the wcPD. The Barangay police, BCpc, auxiriary
units, and volunteer organizations shall also be required to attend
the special training inasmuch as they are front liners.
SECTION 9.
SECTION 10.
Philippine National Police (PNP) pursuant to R.A.
handle cases involving children.

SECTION 11.
SECTION 12.
SECTION 13.
Ord. No. 049-19
The course shall be provided by the Special Office for Children's
Concerns in close coordination with the Women and Children's
Concern SECTION, other agencies, and NGOs focused on child and
youth programs.
BRUTALIW AND/OR MALTREATMENT. Any brutality and/or
maltreatment against children committed by persons in authority
and their agents including but not limited to barangay police,
security guards, CVOs, Police Volunteers and their assets shall be
subjected to penalty under this Ordinance as determined by the
local Internal Affairs Seruice of PNP, NAPOLCOM, the Bureau of Jail
Management and Penology, the Depaftment of the Interior and
Local Government (DILG), and other appropriate agencies without
prejudice to the provisions of the Revised Penal Code. The SOCC
shall monitor in filing complaints of brutality and maltreatment at
the appropriate courts.
PROHIBITION ON THE EMPLOYMENT OF CHILDREN. ChiIdTCN
shall not be employed as provided in the Labor Code of the
Philippines and Republic Act No. 7658, Republic Act No. 10361, and
Republic Act No. 9231.
Kasambahay and/or subject to the exceptions provided by Republic
Act No. 9231.
The employment of children as Kasambahay, aged 15-17 years old,
and the termination of their employment, shall be registered at the
Office of the Punonq Barangay. The Punong Barangay or his/her
desiqnated Kasambahay Desk Officer is authorized to monitor the
condition of children domestic helpers from time to time.
The SOCC, CSSDO and the Depaftment of Labor and Employment
shall develop alternative livelihood programs for the families of
street and urban working children.
The City Government shall allocate higher budget for educational
assistance to street children and employed children.
PROHIBITION ON THE EMPLOYMENT OF CHILDREN IN
CERTAIN ADVERTISEMENTS. No person and establishment shall
employ or allow to employ any child to model in all forms of
commercial or adveftisements promoting alcoholic beverages,
intoxicating drinks, tobacco and its by-products, prostitution and
violence, with or without compensation. It is also prohibited to
upload such activities on social media websites and even for
entertai nment pu rposes.
I

SECTION 14.
SECTION 15.
SECTION 16.
Ord. No. 049-19
CREATION OF A MORO AND OF AN INDIGENOUS PEOPLE'S
couNcrL. A council for Moro and for Indigenous peoples
communities in Davao City shall be created separately to facilitate
planning, decision-making, implementation, and evaluation of all
government programs affecting children of indigenous and Moro
peoples.
RESPECT FOR THE INTERNATIONAL COVENANTS RELEVANT
To ARMED-coNFLrcr. The Locar Government of Davao city shall
undeftake to respect and to ensure respect for rules of international
humanitarian law applicable to philippine political armed-conflict
which are relevant to the child. specifically the following policies
shall be observed:
a
a
a
a
a
a
children shall not be the object of any attack and shall be
entitled to special respect. They shall be protected from
any form of threat, assault, torture or other cruel,
inhumane or degrading treatment. places that generally
have significant presence of children including, but not
limited to, schools, hospitals and places of worship shall
also be protected from attacks or threats of attacks;
children shall not be allowed to take paft in hostilities.
They shall not be recruited to become members of the
Armed Forces of the Philippines or its civilian units or
other armed groups, nor be allowed to take part in the
fighting, or used as guides, or couriers, or spies, cooks or
medic;
Delivery of basic social seruices such as education,
primary health and emergency relief services shall be kept
unhampered;
The safety and protection of those who provide seruices
including those involved in fact-finding missions from both
government and non-government institutions shall be
ensured. They shall not be subjected to undue
harassment in the performance of their work;
Public infrastructure such as schools, hospitars and rural
health units shall not be utilized for military purposes such
as command posts, barracks, detachments, and supply
depots; and
All appropriate steps shall be taken to facilitate the
reunion of families temporarily separated due to armed
conflict.
EVACUATION OF CHILDREN DURING ARMED CONFLICT,
children shall be given priority during evacuations as a result of
armed conflict.
The CSSDO together with the SOCC. other agencies
safety and well-being.

Ord. No. 049+19
Persons responsible shall refer to the following order of preference,
to wit:
1) Pa!'ents;
2) Judicially appointed Guardian;
3) The surviving grandparent;
4) The oldest brother or sister, over twenty-one years of age, unless
unfit or disqualified;
E\ Tha r hilrl'c e
tal cr rstndian mrcr hrucnhr-nne / 1'l vears nf anp
unless unfit or disqualified; and
6) Government.
SECTION 17.
FAMILY LIFE AND TEMPORARY SHELTER DURING ARMED
CONFLICT. Whenever possible, members of the same family shall
be housed in the same premises given separate accommodation
from other evacuees and provided with facilities to lead a normal
family life. In places of temporary shelter, expectant and nursing
mothers and children shall be given additional food in proportion to
their physiological needs. Whenever feasible, children shall be given
opportunities for physical exercise, sports and outdoor games.
SECTION 18.
RIGHTS OF CHILDREN IN SITUATIONS OF ARMED
CONFLICT. Any child who has been rescued for reasons related to
armed conflict, a combatant, courier, guide or spy is entitled to the
following rights:
a. Separate detention from adults except where families are
accommodated as family rights;
b. Immediate free legal assistance through the City Social
Services and Development Office (CCSDO) in coordination
with the Special Office for Children's Concern (SOCC);
c. Immediate notice of such rescue to the parents or guardian
of the child; and
d. Release within twenty-four Qfl hours upon the receipt of the
child by the arresting party to the protective custody of the
Department of Social Welfare and Development or its
accredited organization or the City Mayor as mandated in the
Memorandum of Agreement in the Handling and Treatment
of Children Involved in the Armed Conflict; and
e. Psychosocial therapy.
The SOCC shall initiate rescue of children recovered or taken into
custody by any armed element related to armed conflict. Together
with CSSDO, it shall monitor and ensure the implementation of the
Memorandum of Agreement in the Handling and Treatment of
Children Involved in the Armed Conflict by and among the
Depaftment of National Defense, Armed Forces of the Philippines,
Department of the Interior and Local Government, Philippine
National Police, the Department of Social Welfare and Development
(DSWD), Commission on Human Rights, Offlce of the Presidential
Adviser on the Peace Process and the National Program for
Unification and Development Council signed on March 21, 2000. The
SOCC shall call the attention of the agency or agencies found not to
be implementing the MOA.
SECTION 18a. The child held in custody or rescued due to armed-conflict shall not
be used as a state witness nor shall he/she be subjected to media
exposure at any time upon his/her arrest and stay at the DSWD.
I
l

SECTION 19.
SECTION 20.
SECTION 21.
SECTION 22.
Ord. No. 049-19
Monitoring And Repofting Of Children In Situations Of
Armed Conflict. The chairperson of the Barangay Council for the
Protection of Children or any designated official of the Barangay
affected by the armed conflict shall submit the names of children
residing ln said Barangay to the CSSDO within twenty-four Qa)
hours from the occurrence of the armed conflict.
PROHIBITION OF COMMODIFICATION OF CHILDREN. AII
fund-raising activities that directly or indirectly commodif,T children
or expose children as commodities or objects for sale shall be
prohibited. These activities include, but are not limited to, beauty
contests featuring child contestants who are reduced to a
commodity for manipulation and utilization for one's interest and/or
enteftainment whether or not in exchange of money or goods; in
community benefit dance or disco where the proceeds from young
patrons are utilized to fund common activities or projects; or in
freak shows where children are used to attract customers for a fee.
Talent-based competitions and culturally relevant competitions shall
not be covered by this prohibition.
It is the duty of the Barangay Council for the Protection of Children
to push for the education of this specific provision in the Barangay.
RESCUE OF CHILDREN UNDER SPECIAL CIRCUMSTANCES.
For the protection of children below 18 years of age. they shall be
rescued by the BCPC and CSSDO when found loitering around or
sleeping in public places unless they are in company with their
parents or guardians. The social worker in the Barangay, or any
available personnel from the CSSDO as well as from the Philippine
National Police shall initiate and accompany the rescue of these
children and turn them over to their respective residences provided
that the parents or guardians must sign an undeftaking for them to
attend the scheduled parenting seminar to be conducted by the
CSSDO. The same shall also be turned over to the CSSDO or other
accredited NGOs. The same undertaking shall be conducted on
children found inside bars, videoke establishments, internet cafes
and other similar establishments un
ouardian.
The BCPC, CSSDO. and other accredited NGG are mandated to
provide shelter for street children.
CHILDREN AFFECTED IN NATURAL DISASTERS AND/OR
CALAMITIES. Children shall be given priority in times of natural
disasters andlor calamities like flashfloods, flre, eafthquakes, pest
infestation, volcanic eruption, and drought as provided by Republic
Act No. 10821. The CSSDO, in coordination with the Davao City
Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Council (DRRMC) and the
City Health Office shall devise a program to assist children victims of
disasters inclusive of the following components:
. Psychosocial therapy and counseling;
. Naturally processed foods for newborn babies and special
food for lactating mothers;
o Free medical services and children's clinic; and
. Child-friendly and child-sensitive evacuation centers.
{
t

Ord. No. 049-19
In cases of natural disasters and/calamities, the Local Government
of Davao City with the proper written documentation to the DepEd
and DILG shall provide evacuation centers pursuant to SECTION 5 of
Republic Act No. 10821.
SECTION 23.
MEDIA HANDLING OF NEWS AND ISSUES INVOLVING
aHrr nREN
ah lrlren in naprl nf cnari:l n
qhall nnt ho
exposed to undue media coverage unless consented to by the child
and parent/quardian. Media practitioners shall have the duty to
maintain the highest critical and professional standards in reporting
and covering cases of children in conflict with the law.
Thus. in a
with Republic Act No. 9344, all records and
proceedings involving children in conflict with the law from initial
contact until final disposition of the case shall be considered
privileged and confidential, The public shall be excluded during the
proceedings and the records shall not be disclosed directlv or
indirectly to anyone by any of the parties or the participants in the
proceedings for any purpose whatsoever, except to determine if the
child in conflict with the law may have his/her sentence suspended
or if he/she may be granted probation under the Probation Law, or
to enforce the civil liability imposed in the criminal action.
The component authorities shall undertake all measures to protect
the confidential
of proceedinos. includino
on-disclosure of
records to the media, maintainino a separate police blotter for cases
involving children in conflict with the law and shall not be used in
subsequent proceedings for cases involving the same offender as an
adult, except when beneficial for the offender and upon his/her
written consent.
In all publicity, the best interest of the child should be the primordial
and paramount concern. Any member of the mass media who shall
display, air, broadcast or print violence and exploitation of children
qhall ho hold I A lp in thiq Cndp Childron mr rct
lso hp nrntertpd
against child pornography and bullying.
Afticle IV Development Rights of Children
SECTION 1.
EARLY CHILDHOOD CARE AND DEVELOPMENT SYSTEM
This refers to the full range of health , nutrition, early education
and social seruices programs that provide the basic holistic needs of
young children from bifth to age eight (B) and to promote for their
optimum growth and development as provided by Republic Act No.
10410. The program includes:
The Kindergaften Education Act or Republic Act No. 10157
which provides equal opportunities for all children to avail of
accessible mandatory and compulsory kindergaften education
that effectively promotes physical, social, intellectual,
emotional and skills simulation and values formation to
sufficiently prepare them for formal elementary schooling,
Kindergaften education is made mandatory and compulsory
entrance to Grade 1.
a

a
a
a
a
o
Page 19 of '31
Ord. No. 049-19
Growth and nutritional monitoring with nutritional feeding
and supervision of nutritional intake at home;
A sanctuary for abused, neglected or exploited children which
will take in children in urgent need of protection due to a
situation which endangers the child or which has exposed the
child to cruelty and abuse; Provided, that the center, with the
help and support of the Barangay officials and their
Barangay-level support systems, may call upon law
enforcement agencies when the child needs to be rescued
from an unbearable home situation;
A reproductive health care center for pregnant mothers for
prenatal and neonatal care, and in the proper case, for
delivery of the infant under conditions which will remove or
minimize risk to mother and child: Provided, that high-risk
mothers shall be referred to the proper tertiary or secondary
care service personnel and children who are at risk from any
condition or illness will be brought for care: provided, fufther
that "hilots" and Barangay health workers are provided the
needed basic training for normal delivery and are trained to
recognize high-risk pregnancies which should be referred to
competent obstetrical and pediatric medical care for mother
and child who are at risk;
To monitor and register pregnancies and to ensure full access
to pre-natal and post-natal care in accordance with Republic
Act No. 11148; and
ECCD Seruice providers include the various professionals,
paraprofessionals, and volunteer caregivers who are directly
responsible for the care and education of young children
through the various center and home-based programs. They
include, but are not limited to, day care workers, teachers,
teacher-aides, rural health midwives, social workers,
community health workers, barangay nutrition scholars,
parent effectiveness seruice volunteers, child development
workers, and family day care providers.
A pool of trained day care center or child development workers with
an upgraded salary scheme commensurate to the tasks assigned
shall be installed.
ECCD Curriculum refers to the age and developmentally appropriate
educational objectives, programs of activities, organized learning
experiences and recommended learning materials for children that
are implemented by seruice providers through center and homebased programs. It shall consist of national program goals and
guidelines, instructional objectives, and content outlines integrating
local leaning experiences and indigenous learning materials.
Parent Education refers to the various formal and alternative means
of providing parents with information, skills, and support systems to
assist them in their roles as their children's primary caregivers and
educators. These include public and private parent education
programs linked to center, home and media-based child care and
education programs.

a
a
a
Ord. No. 049-19
Center-based programs, such as the day care seruice
established under Republic Act No. Og7Z, public and private
pre-schools, kindergaften or school-based programs,
community or church-based early childhood education
programs initiated by non-government organizations or
people's organizations, workplace-related child care and
education programs, child-minding centers, health centers
and stations;
A Barangay-based child minding center shall be established
to care for children of working parents during the day in a
daily B hour programme and, where feasible, care and
supervision for children up to eight (BLyears of age when
parents are working at night; provided, that the day care
center need not take care of the children in a particular place
but shall develop network of homes where adults may take
care of the children up to (B) eight years of age of working
parents during work hours, with adequate superuision from
the Supervising Social Welfare Officer of the CSSDO:
Provided, fufther, that where young children are left to the
care of a paid domestic, an elderly relative or older children
without adequate and competent adult superuision, the
Supervising Social Welfare Officer shall provide such training
and adult superuision until the children's care meets
adequate standards whereby the children under their care
will develop normally as healthy, happy and loving children,
even in the absence of their parents during working hours;
and
Home-based programs, such as neighborhood-based play
groups, family day care programs, parent education and
home visiting programs.
Materials and network of surrogate parents-teachers who will
provide intellectual and mental stimulation to the children, as well as
superuised wholesome recreation, with a balanced program of
supervised play, mental stimulation activities, and group activities
with peers.
Unstructured combined with structured learning exercises for
children under the early childhood education shall be instituted in
the children center or day care centers respecting the pafticipation
right of the child.
The Local Government of Davao ciV in cooperation with the
Depaftment of Education and ECCD committee shall also ensure to
years old. The program on survival shall also include the following:
Monitoring of registration of bifths and the completion of the
immunization SERIES for prevention of tuberculosis, diptheria,
pertusis, tetanus, measles, poliomyelitis and such other
diseases for which vaccines have been developed for
administration to children up to eight (B) years of age;
a

SECTION 2.
SECTION 3.
SECTION 4.
SECTION 5.
Ord. No. 049-19
Population-based Chald Development Center. Child
Development Center shall be set up in every Barangay. In case the
Child Development Center could not be set up or not feasible in the
Barangay. other ECCD modalities can be set up on every Barangay.
The number of such centers shall depend on the number of children
and the prevailing economic conditions in the Barangay as
determined by the CSSDO. Parents Program shall form part of this
early childhood education. Child Development Workers shall
preferably be a resident of the barangay, shall possess good moral
character and shall undergo intensive trainings on ECCD. Monthly
evaluation and monitoring shall be conducted.
Survey and Active Program for Children with Disabilities.
The CSSDO in coordination with the SOCC shall make a periodic
comprehensive survey, facilities, and infrastructure on the children
with disabilities in the City.
Barangay-level Recreational and Cultural Facilities and
Program. A Barangay-level program for the revival of indigenous
games reflective of the cultural diversity in Davao City shall be
installed. The Local Government of Davao city shall allocate space
for recreation and provide recreational facilities appropriate for
children's gender and age. A regular cultural program appropriate
for each children's age-group and gender shall be designed with due
respect to cultural diversity.
Local Children's Literature. In support to the socio-cultural
development of children in Davao City, the Local Government of
Davao City, in cooperation with appropriate government agencies.
shall invest in the production of local literature for children or other
relevant materials.
In the production for local literature for children and other related
activities, the responsible bodies shall ensure the participation of
children.
The materials on literature given to children should emphasize
knowledge about gender and culture sensitivity. The same shall
also be age-appropriate/child-friendly materials.
SECTION 6.
Parenting Orientation Courses.
Prior to the issuance of marriage license, applicants shall be
required to pafticipate in a Parenting Orientation Course I which
gives emphasis on counseling and strengthening family relations.
This course becomes an integral part of existing Family planning
Seminar on Reproductive Health course.
Parents-applicants for bifth certificate of their child shall also be
encouraged to participate to a Parenting Orientation Course II, as a
follow up to the first course before the issuance of Ceftiflcate of Live
Bi'th by the civil Registrar without prejudice to the early registration
of bifth requirement under existing law. Parenting Orientation
course II shall be done in coordination with the community-based
secondary and tertiary hospitals.
I

SECTION 7.
SECTION 8.
SECTION 9.
SECTION 1.
Ord. No. 049-19
The Davao City Special Offlce for Children's Concerns in coordination
with the City Health Office, CSSDO and the City Civil Registrar's
Office shall update the family planning seminar and design the
module of Parenting Orientation Course I and II.
Parenting orientation for Senior High school shall also be promoted
in cooperation with DepEd. DSWD, and CSSDO.
Reoistration of Live Bifth and of Live Birth Certificate shall be
issued free of charge to indigent below 18 years of age.
Promotion of Moral and Spiritual Values. There shall be a
promotion of a comprehensive moral and spiritual values of all
children in all schools and communities. These values must be
scripture-based principles that foster love of God, love for others,
love for country, and respect for creation. It must inculcate the
basic attitude of respect for laws and authorities. The promotion
must be in all Children Development Centers, all schools especially,
elementary and in communities through the BCPC and other NGOs
in the area.
Recreational and Educational Facilities. All Barangays shall
establish a play ground or recreational facilities and library or
readinq centers.
Afticle V Survival Rights
Promotion of Primary Health Care Program.The Barangay
Health Centers shall implement the Primary Health Care Program.
Each Barangay Health Center shall have a Barangay Child Health
Officer tasked to monitor child health in the barangay level with a
salary commensurate to the task assigned. The Local Government of
Davao City, in pafticular, shall take appropriate measures which
shall include, but not limited to, the followino:
To combat disease and malnutrition within the framework of
primary health care, through inter alia the application of
readily available technology and through the provision of
adequate nutritious foods and clean drinking water, taking
into consideration the dangers and risk of environmental
pollution;
To establish a comprehensive Parents Orientation
Development Program which includes courses on
reproductive health, child, health and child rearing practices
in the context of the Filipino psychology;
To monitor the full implementation of the Milk Code of the
Philippines and advocate for the prosecution of milk firms
which violate the Code;
To monitor the implementation of the Act for Salt Iodization
Nationwide of 1995 (R.A.8172) which mandates the iodization
of all food-grade salt for human and animal consumption;
and
a
a
a
a

a
Ord. No. 049-19
To conduct massive information and education on breast
feeding. Utilizing existing reference materials for effective
breast feeding education program. And that students in all
levels are required to take up breast feeding course which
shall be an integral part of all curricula.
SECTION 2.
SECTION 3,
SECTION 4.
Comprehensive Training Course on Child and Maternal
Health. All health practitioners dealing with child health in the
government, NGO or private institutions shall be required to
complete a Comprehensive Training Course on Child and Maternal
Health. No one shall practice her or his health profession without
the updated Certiflcate of Completion of this training course which
shall be designed by the Task Force on Health or as prescribed in
the implementing rules and regulations of this Ordinance. Violation
of this provision will constitute a penalty of cancellation of license to
practice profession.
Child-friendly Hospital in Davao City.All hospitals in Davao City
shall set-up child-friendly units to include lying in and bifthing home
facilities, rooming-in facilities and pediatric-appropriate mechanisms
and gadgets. This SECTION must be understood to be in coordination
with CHO and DOH.
CREATION OF
CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL AND
COMPREHENSM CHILDREN'S FACILITIES. The Local
Government of Davao City shall establish a special hospital for
children accessible to, and affordable for the poor families.
It shall ensure pediatric assistance and facilities for the treatment of
illness and physical rehabilitation. Such protective and
developmental placement shall be evaluated regularly by a
competent team composed of multi-disciplinal professionals.
This multi-disciplinal special hospital shall not however, assume the
function of the primary health care available at the Barangay level.
The Davao City Pediatric Society shall be involved in the final
promulgation of program of the Children's Hospital under the Task
Force on Child Health which shall be formed by the City Health
Office and the Davao City Special Office for Children's Concerns
within one year of the effectivity of this Ordinance. As part of the
suppoft system for child's health, government health practitioners
are required to undeftake special training on pediatric care through
the Davao City Child Health Institute which shall be established by
the Local Government of Davao City through the City Health Office
within two years after the approval of this Ordinance. The Child
Health Institute shall monitor the operations of all private and
government hospital-pediatric units to ensure implementation of
child-friendly measures.
The Local Government of Davao City shall likewise establish a
Comprehensive Children's Facilities.
{
(

SECTION 5.
SECTION 1.
SECTION 2.
Ord. No. 049-19
ll not be
discriminated and their Rights and welfare shall be promoted and
Respected.
Afticle VI Participation Rights of Children
Pafticipation of children in Decision Making processes. All
children in the family, school, community or other organization or
institution shall be heard. They shall have the right to organize
among themselves. Each child regardless of sexual orientation, d9e
and tribe has the right to express his or her opinion freely and to
have that opinion taken into account in any matter or procedure
affecting the child. It shall be the responsibility of the adults to
provide oppoftunities for children to express his or her views, obtain
information, make ideas or information known, regardless of tribe,
religion, age and sexual orientation.
Every children in the different barangays shall elect a representative
in the BCPC to sit down on meetings, planning, and decision making
as well as to attend the city-wide or Regional children's Congress.
The criteria for the selection of child representative are as follows:
Must be between 10-15 years old;
Must be an active participant of the community;
Must
an active
ber of an
accred
nized
organization in the Baranoay, school, or faith group;
Mus.t be able to articulate children's issues and concerns;
Mr rct h
at loaqt 2
a\/ nf nno /1\
\
r in tho
barangay;
. Must have good leadership skills; and
. Must have balanced views on gender, religion and ethnicity,
and disabilities.
Installation of Mechanism for pafticipation in the poticy and
Program Formulation of the Local Government. children, who
are from the different groups such as those from the grassroots,
out-of-school youth, peasant, fisher folks, Indigenous people,
badjao, and moro shall be convened in a chirdren's congress to be
held in October every year.
The children's congress shall provide venue for children to express
their views relevant to the policies of the Local Government of
Davao city, Detailed implementing rules and guidelines in the
conduct of the children's congress shall be formulated by the Davao
CiW Special Office for Children's Concerns.
The BCPC shall create and establish a Barangay children's
Association represented by different groups of children such as, but
not limited to, the OSY, CICL, Ip, badjao, moro, flsherfolk, urban
poor, children at risk, children with disabilities, children with special
needs and marginalized children.
o
a
a
a
o

,
SECTION 3.
School-based Children's Rights. This shall include:
A. Right to organize among themselves:
Ord. No. 049-19
School-based children shall have the right to form autonomous,
democratic and representative learner government/council as the
highest expression of learner organization in the school.
It shall have its own Constitution and By-laws and shall serue as
primary venues for school-based children to uphold their general
welfare and aspirations. It shall be established through a democratic
process such as elections. It shall plan and determine programs and
activities geared towards their holistic development provided that
such are made in accordance to the mission statement and policies
of the school.
Learner governments/councils shall represent their constituents and
in consultation with them, shall participate in decision and policymaking processes regarding school matters directly affecting them.
School administrators shall assist in the collection of reasonable
learner government/council fee. The same shall be used for the
implementation of the latter's activities and programs.
Based on their skills, talents, and interests, pupils/students have the
right to form and join clubs, alliances, and other associations. These
may include, but not limited to, academic, religious, socio-civic,
cultural, and political clubs. These clubs shall be given recognition
and shall conduct activities in line with the school's mission
statement and policies; and with the superuision of the Office of
Student Affairs.
The recognition of learner clubs shall be determined by the learner
government/council in coordination with the Office of Student
Affairs, and shall be governed only by necessary and reasonable
requirements. School policies pertinent to clubs shall be made with
genuine students' participation and are applied for as long as these
do not hinder them from realizing their goals and activities.
Learners shall not be compelled to join or not to join any particular
club. Any form of intimidation or harassment shall not be allowed.
Learners shall not be made to sign documents or any paper (e.9.
waiver) ceftifying that they are not members of or do not intend to
join a pafticular club, as a condition for enrolment and/or admission
in school;
B. Right to Free Expression:
Learners shall have the right to establish/form publications that will
be published regularly and independently. These shall serue as
venues to exercise their right to free expression and to ensure
access to information.

Page 25 of 3t
Ord. No. 049-19
school records of public concern shall be made available to the
pupil/student publication whenever requested.
Learners shall have the right to convey information and to manifest
their ideas/views freely, either orally, in writing or in the form of aft
(e.9. distribute/circulate and/or mount leaflets, newsletters, posters,
wallnews, and other similar materials reflective of their interests,
aspirations, and well-being). The school shall provide adequate
facilities for dissemination of information, such as bulletin boards,
etc.
Learners shall have the right to peaceably assemble and to petition
for redress of grievance. Peaceful student assemblies shall not be
forcibly dispersed and/or harassed. No school regulations and/or
guidelines pertaining to pupil/student assemblies shall be restrictive
of their basic right to peaceably assemble.
A freedom wall shall be established so that the children can have
and use it as an avenue to voice out their grievance, admiration,
and critics inside the school campus.
Request for permits shall not be required from pupils/students for
the conduct of assemblies inside campuses. However, they shall
notify the office of Student Affairs within a reasonable period of
time prior to the conduct of the assembly.
There will be a children's forum to be conducted during the
Children's Month and to include the Supreme Student Government
(SSG) in the Children Protection Committee to acknowledge their
power to vote and to become part in the children's policy
assessment;
C. Right to Participate in the Review and Formulation of policies
Affecti ng thei r Welfare :
School-based children shall have the right to participate in the
review and determination of school policies relevant to their welfare
by having representatives in policy-making bodies in the school,
pafticularly the leading officers of the pupil/student
council/government. They shall have voting powers in these policymaking bodies.
Similarly, school-based children shall have the right to participate in
the review and formulation of government programs and policies
affecting them by having representatives to the children's congress.
A school-based Children's Congress will be initiated which should be
managed by the school children and not by the school teachers.
However. such teachers or school advisers may guide the school
children on managing such school-based Children's Congress.
Accordingly, the monitoring and implementation of this activity will
be headed by the Department of Education in cooperation with the
SOCC;

SECTION 1.
Page 26 of 3'1
Ord. No. 049-19
D. Right to Avail the Use of School Seruices and Facilities
For more efflcient participation, learners shail have the right to
adequate welfare seruices and facilities in school. Learners and
pupil/student organizations shall have the right to make use of
school facilities, and are held responsible for its proper use and
maintenance; and
E. Role of Moderators/Advisers:
Moderators/advisers of pupil/student councils, publications and clubs
shall function to give guidance and assistance to aid in the
formation of active and dynamic children sector in schools; but shall
prohibit from exercising any form of control and censorship (as to
publications).
Any child, on account of his/her exercise of participation rights shall
be protected from arbitrary disciplinary measures and penalties.
He/she shall have the right to due process, to procedural fairness in
disciplinary proceeding, and to presumption of innocence.
These rights of school-based children shail be included in all
pupil/student handbooks for more effective dissemination and
implementation.
The SANGGUNIANG Kabataan Federation shall adopt mechanisms to
ensure and to monitor the implementation of these provisions.
Afticle VII Institutiona! Mechanisms
Functions of the special office for children's concerns. The
Davao city Special office for children's concerns, a line agency
under the city Mayors office, separate and distinct from the city
social services and Development office, shall be created to beef up
the capacity of the latter in realizing the provisions of this
ordinance. It shall assume functions relative to conceptualization,
coordination of programs and services for and with children,
regulatory, executory, monitoring and evaluation in support to the
Local Government of Davao city's high priority on children. It shall
cause to file complaints on cases of unlawful acts committed against
children in the most expeditious process with the appointment of
ombudsperson for children with full legal staff as deemed
necessary.
A staffing pattern that has a strong leaning to child-centered work
must be established.
Local council for the Protection of children. There is hereby
reorganized and reconstituted a body known and called as the Local
SECTION 2.

Ord. No. 049-t9
The LCPC shall have the followino functions:
1)
Fnrmr r atp nlans nroorams and nolicies for children that are
qender-fair, culturally relevant and responsive to the needs of
diverse groups of children from 0 to below 18 years of age;
2) Preoare Annual Work and Financial Plan (AWFP) for children and
recommend appropriations to the sanggunian;
3) Provide coordinative linkages with other agencies and institutions
in the planning, monitoring, and evaluation of plans for children;
4) Provide technical assistance and recommend financial suppott to
the Barangay Council for the Protection of Children;
5) Establish and maintain database on children in the city;
6) Foster education of every child;
7) Advocate for the establishment and maintenance of playgrounds,
day care centers and other facilities necessary for child and
youth developmenU
B) Recommend local legislation promoting child sulival. protection,
participation and development, especially on the quality
television shows, media prints and coverage, which are
detrimental to children, and with appropriate funding suppott;
9) Assist children in need of special protection and refer cases filed
against child abusers to proper agencies/institutions;
10)Conduct capability building programs to enhance knowledge and
skills in handling children's program;
11)Document barangay best practices on children;
12)Monitor and evaluate the implementation of the program and
submit quarterly status reports to the Regional Committee for
Welfare of Children (RCWC); and
13)Perform such other functions as provided for in the ECCD and
other child related laws.
The membershio of the Local Council for the Protection of Children
is hereby reconstituted as follows:
Chairperson: CiW Mayor or her duly designated representative
Co-Chairperson: Chaiperson of the City Council Committee on
Women. Children and Family Relations
Vice-Chairperson : Non-Government Organization (NGO)
Members: City Social Services and Development Office (CSSDO)
City Health Office (CHO)
City Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Office
(cDRRMO)
City Agriculturist's Offi ce
City Planning and Development Office (CPDO)
City Budget Office (CBO)
Citv Accountant's Office (CBO)
City Civil Registrar's Office
Liga ng mga Barangay President
SANGGUNIANG Kabataan (SK) Federation President
Deoaftment of the Interior and LocalGovernment
(DILG) City
Depaftment of Education (DepED) City Division
Superintendent

SECTION 3.
SECTION 4.
Ord. No. 049-19
Philippine National Police (PNP) City Director
City Prosecutor's Office
Child Representatives
City Treasurer
City Nutrition Officer
Pa rents-Teachers Association
NGO Representatives and Others
At least three (3) representatives of non-government
organizations (NGOs). two (2) of whom are appointed
by the committee handling ECCD Program and one (1)
from the trade/labor union sector
IGDD Representative
City Librarian
The Council may add members from time to time as deemed
necessary.
Organizational Structure of LCPC. The organizational structure
of the LCPC shall be as follows:
. Executive Committee: Chairperson. Co-chairperson. ViceChairperson, five (5) chairpersons of the sub-committees on
suruival, development, protection. child participation, ECCD,
Child representatives, CBO. CAO, CPDO. Liga President and
DILG City Director.
. Committee on Children's Survival
. Committee on Children's Development
. Committee on Children's Protection
. Committee on Children's Participation
. Committee on Early Childhood and Care Development (ECCD)
Local Council for the Protection of Children - Inter-agencv
Monitorino Task Force ( LCPC - IMTF)
The LCPC- IMTF is organized in order to gather concerned local
offices to deliberate, discuss and clarify issues/concerns in relation
to the monitoring of the functions of the BCPC and the compliance
to the Child - friendly Local Governance Audit (CLFGA) as well as to
advocate for support and assistance for the promotion and
realization of children's rights based on the results of the local and
national assessments and evaluation.
Composition. There shall be an Inter-Agency Monitoring Task
Force (IMTF) at all levels, specifically, City -IMTF.
Vice-chai rperson : CSWDO/CSSDO
Members:
City Planning and Development Coordinator Office
City Health and Nutrition Office
DepEd Representative at all levels
Academe Representative
a)
b)
c)
d)
Chairperson : CITY DILG

SECTION 5.
SECTION 6.
Ord. No. 049-19
e) Representative from non-government and/or intefaith
organization
f,) Local Budget Officer
g) Accountant
h) SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod Secretary
i) Chairperson on Committee on Women. Children, and Family
Relations
Considerinq the wide territorial jurisdiction of the Local Government
of Davao City, a District-IMTF shall be organized composed of
per congressional district.
Other functions of the LCPC - IMTF shall be in accordance with the
DILG MC 2008 - 126 and DILG - DSWD - DepEd - DOH JMC no.
2019 - 01.
Barangay Council for the Protection of Children (BCPC). All
barangays shall organize a Barangay Council for the Protection of
Children headed by the Punong Barangay and co-chaired by the
SANGGUNIANG Kabataan Chairperson. The LCPC shall assist in the
formation of the
and the LCPC-IMTF
and shall conduct
regular monitoring and evaluation of the same.
The BCPC shall have periodic assessment and repoft regarding
situation of children in their respective barangays and to submit the
same to the LCPC through the SOCC being the secretariat.
This provision shall be in accordance with the provisions of DILG
Memorandum Circular No 2002-l2l and those prescribed in this
Ordinance.
Children As Social Indicators Of Local Conditions. Children are
hereby declared as Social Indicators of Local condition. The City
Planning & Development Office in coordination with the SOCC shall
come up with a yearly situational analysis of children in Davao City
for monitoring and evaluation.
The Council, in coordination with the Local School Board, the
Division of City Schools, National Commission of Indigenous
Peoples, Office of Muslim Affairs and the Davao City Council for the
Protection of Children, shall create a Team of Educators to
formulate a specialized curriculum which is culture-specific and
relevant to the needs and existing situation of the indigenous and
Moro children in Davao City. (From Article III, SECTION 15)
ARTICLE VIII PENAL PROVISIONS
PENALTY. Unless otherwise provided, persons found violating any
provisions of this Ordinance shall be penalized as follows:
a) First Offense - a fine of P2,500.00 and/or imprisonment of
one (1) month;
SECTION 1
t,
I

Ord. No. 049-19
b) Second Offense - a fine of P3,500.00 and/or imprisonment of
three (3) months; and
c) Third Offense - a fine of P5,000.00 and/or imprisonment of
one (1) year and/or cancellation of business permit.
ARTICLE IX FINAL PRCIVISIONS
SECTION 1.
RULES AND REGULATIONS. An Ad Hoc Committee sha|I be
created by the City Mayor composed by the members of the
Technical Working Group in the amendment process of the Children
Welfare Code together with the City Prosecutor's Office, which shall
promulgate rules and regulations for the effective implementation of
this Ordinance.
SECTION 2.
APPROPRIATIONS. The amount necessary to carry out the
provisions of this Ordinance is hereby authorized to be appropriated
subject to usual available funds of Government and accountino
Rules, pafticularly 5o/o of the General Fund.
SECTION 3.
SEPARABILITY CLAUSE. -lf. for anv reasons, any part or
provision of this Ordinance sirall be declared unconstitutional or
to be in full force and effect.
SECTION 4.
REPEALING CLAUSE. -All Ordinances contrary to or inconsistent
with this Ordinance are hereby repealed or modified accordingly.
SECTION 5.
EFFECTIVITY. This Ordinance shall take effect after publication in
a newspaper of general circulatron in Davao City.
ENACTED, on the 24th day of September, 2019, by a unanimous vote of all the
Members of the Sanggunian, there being a quorum.
CEKTIFIED CORRECT:
.fi%fif.t\.K*ro,
Secretary to the SANGGUNIANG Panlungsod
(City Goverrrinent Department Head lI){
ATTESTED:
SEBASTIAN Z. DUTERTE
Vice Mayor
Presiding Ofticer
cns/kjtq
a

/
ATTESTED:
ATTY.
City
t
I ,
(
d
Ord. No. 049-19
AppRovED. 0 4 il0V 2019 . zo1s
,
z.
City MuYfl
Administrator